# Chapter 1: Introduction

Advanced users of Ansys Chemkin may want to write their own custom Chemkin
program, or they may want to modify or supplement the functionality of
existing Chemkin application programs. This manual provides guidance for both
options. The API manual contains detailed programming-interface information
for accessing Chemkin's subroutine libraries for gas-phase kinetics, surface-
kinetics, thermodynamic-property, and transport-property utilities. Explicit
instructions are also given for modifying user-routine templates to customize
existing Chemkin reactor-model programs. The Chemkin subroutine libraries may
be accessed either from user-modified subroutines called by Chemkin pre-
packaged Reactor Models, or from entirely user-written application programs.
User application programs may be written in C, C++, or FORTRAN computer
languages.

* * *

Note:  In each chapter where the definition and argument list of each routine
is described, the FORTRAN interface is shown with the additional subroutine or
function appendix or additional arguments required by the C++ interface
enclosed in { }. For example:

    SUBROUTINE CKCOMP{_C} ({N,NARRAY, } IST, IRAY, II, I)
    
    has FORTRAN interface                           and C++ interface
    SUBROUTINE CKCOMP (IST, IRAY, II, I)            SUBROUTINE CKCOMP_C (N,NARRAY, IST, IRAY, II,
                                                    I)
    

* * *

All Ansys Chemkin user subroutines are currently in FORTRAN. For all
Chemkin/API programmers, access to a supported FORTRAN compiler and basic
knowledge of FORTRAN linking procedures are required. For C/C++ programmers,
access to a supported C or C++ compiler is also required. Details of these
requirements are discussed in each chapter of this manual.

The remainder of [Introduction](i13005api_intro.md "Chapter 1:
Introduction") contains an overview of the structure of a typical Ansys
Chemkin-based program and the interactions between different utility
components in a Chemkin application program. [User Supplemental
Programming](i13005api_user_sup_prog.md "User Supplemental Programming")
provides detailed instructions for modifying user-routines to supplement the
behavior of Chemkin Reactor Models. [Writing User
Applications](i13005api_writing_userapps.md "Writing User Applications")
provides instructions on how to write an application program from scratch,
which uses calls to the various Chemkin subroutine libraries, including
several complete example programs. [Quick Reference Guide to the Gas-phase
Kinetics Subroutine Library](i13005api_quickref_gaskinetics.md "Quick
Reference Guide to the Gas-phase Kinetics Subroutine Library") , [Quick
Reference Guide to the Surface Kinetics Subroutine
Library](i13005api_refsurfkineticslib.md "Quick Reference Guide to the
Surface Kinetics Subroutine Library") , and [Quick Reference Guide to the
Transport Subroutine Library](i13005api_quickref_transp_lib.md "Quick
Reference Guide to the Transport Subroutine Library") contain quick-reference
lists of the available subroutines in the three subroutine libraries for gas-
phase kinetics, surface kinetics, and transport-properties. Finally,
[Alphabetical Listing of the Gas-phase Kinetics Subroutine
Library](i13005api_list_gpk.md "Alphabetical Listing of the Gas-phase
Kinetics Subroutine Library") , [Alphabetical Listing of the Surface Kinetics
Subroutine Library](i13005api_list_surf_kin.md "Alphabetical Listing of the
Surface Kinetics Subroutine Library") , and [Alphabetical Listing of the
Transport Subroutine Library](i13005api_list_transportlib.md "Alphabetical
Listing of the Transport Subroutine Library") contain alphabetical listings
and more detailed descriptions of call lists for all of the subroutines in the
three subroutine libraries.

[ « Chemkin Application Programming Interface Manual](chemkin_api.md)

 [1.1. Compiler Compatibility » ](i43132.md)

Contains proprietary and confidential information of ANSYS, Inc. and its
subsidiaries and affiliates.

Release 2025 R1 - (C) ANSYS, Inc. All rights reserved.

Draft Published: 2024-07-05T13:14:37-04:00

