# SKIRNU



    SKIRNU    SKIRNU    SKIRNU    SKIRNU    SKIRNU    SKIRNU    SKIRNU    
              **********************************************
                        **************************
                                  ******

    SUBROUTINE SKIRNU (IDIM, NDIM, ISKWRK, RSKWRK, NIIRNU, IRNU,
                       NSPEC, KI, RNU)
    Returns the number and indices of surface reactions with real
    stoichiometric coefficients, number of species in the reactions,
    and the species indices and coefficients;

    INPUT
    IDIM      - Integer scalar, dimension of the arrays IRNU and NSPEC,
                and the second dimension of matrices KI and RNU;
                IDIM must be at least NIIRNU, the number of surface
                reactions with real stoichiometric coefficients.
    NDIM      - Integer scalar, first dimension of matrices KI and RNU;
                NDIM must be at least MAXSPR, the maximum number of
                species allowed in a surface reaction.
    ISKWRK(*) - Integer workspace array; dimension at least LENISK.
    RSKWRK(*) - Real    workspace array; dimension at least LENRSK.

    OUTPUT
    NIIRNU    - Integer scalar, total number of surface reactions with
                real stoichiometric coefficients.
    IRNU(*)   - Integer array, indices of surface reactions with real
                stoichiometric coefficients; dimension at least NIIRNU.
    NSPEC(*)  - Integer array, total number of species in a surface
                reaction;
                dimension at least NIIRNU.
    KI(*,*)   - Integer matrix, species indices for species in a surface
                reaction;
                dimension at least MAXSPR for the first, and at least
                NIIRNU for the second.
                KI(M,N) is the species index of the Mth species in the
                Nth real coefficient surface reaction.
    RNU(*,*)  - Real matrix, stoichiometric coefficients for species
                in the NIIRNU reactions; dimension at least MAXSPR for
                the first, and at least NIIRNU for the second.
                RNU(M,N) is the stoichiometric coefficient of the Mth
                species in the Nth real coefficient surface reaction, and
                RNU(M,*) < 0 if the Mth species is a reactant;
                RNU(M,*) > 0 if the Mth species is a product.







