# SKIORD



    SKIORD    SKIORD    SKIORD    SKIORD    SKIORD    SKIORD    SKIORD    
              **********************************************
                        **************************
                                  ******

    SUBROUTINE SKIORD (IDIM, KDIM, ISKWRK, RSKWRK, NFORD, IFORD, FORD,
                       NRORD, IRORD, RORD)
    Returns the number and indices of surface reactions with modified
    species orders, and the order values for the species in the
    surface mechanism.

    INPUT
    IDIM      - Integer scalar, dimension of arrays IFORD and IRORD;
                IDIM must be at least NORD, the total number of
                surface reactions with modified species orders.
    KDIM      - Integer scalar, first dimension of the arrays FORD and
                RORD;
                KDIM must be at least NKK, the total species count.
    ISKWRK(*) - Integer workspace array; dimension at least LENISK.
    RSKWRK(*) - Real    workspace array; dimension at least LENRSK.

    OUTPUT
    NFORD     - Integer scalar, total number of surface reactions with
                modified forward species orders.
    IFORD(*)  - Integer array, indices of surface reactions with modified
                forward species orders; dimension at least NFORD.
    FORD(*,*) - Real matrix, the modified forward species orders for the
                NFORD surface reactions;
                dimension at least KKTOT, the total species count, for
                the first, and at least NFORD for the second.
                FORD(K,N) is the forward order of species K for the Nth
                surface change-order reaction.
    NRORD     - Integer scalar, total number of surface reactions with
                modified reverse species orders.
    IRORD(*)  - Integer array, indices of surface reactions with modified
                reverse species orders; dimension at least NRORD.
    RORD(*,*) - Real matrix, the modified reverse species orders for the
                NRORD surface reactions;
                dimension at least KKTOT for the first, the total species
                count, and at least NRORD for the second.
                RORD(K,N) is the reverse order of species K for the Nth
                surface change-order reaction.







