# Chemical Production Rates

Table 5.10: Chemical Production Rates Subroutines

Subroutine| Description  
---|---  
`SUBROUTINE SKCONT (KSPEC, ROP, ISKWRK, RSKWRK, CIK)` | Returns the contributions of the surface reactions to the molar production rate of species KSPEC.  
`SUBROUTINE SKDRDA (IR, P, T, ACT, SDEN, ISKWRK, RSKWRK, DKDAI)`| Returns the partial of the rates of production of the species with respect to the pre- exponential constant of surface reaction IR.  
`SUBROUTINE SKDRDC (KSPEC, P, T, ACT, SDEN, ISKWRK, RSKWRK, DKDC)`| Returns the partial derivative of the production rates of the species with respect to the concentration of species KSPEC.  
`SUBROUTINE SKDSDC (P, T, X, ACT, SDEN, ISKWRK, RSKWRK, DSDC, KKTOT, SDOT,SITDOT)`| Returns the partial derivative of the production rates of the species with respect to the concentration of each species. It also returns the matching production rates.  
`SUBROUTINE SKDSDX (P, T, X, ACT, SDEN, ISKWRK, RSKWRK, DSDX, KKTOT, SDOT, SITDOT)`| Returns the partial derivative of the production rates of the species with respect to the activity for each species. It also returns the matching production rates.  
`SUBROUTINE SKRAT (P, T, ACT, SDEN, ISKWRK, RSKWRK, SDOT, SITDOT)`| Returns production rates for the species and sites.  
`SUBROUTINE SKRATI (IR, ROP, ISKWRK, RSKWRK, SDOTI, SITDTI)` | Returns rates of production of the species by surface reaction IR.  
  
  

[ « 5.10. Thermodynamic Properties (Molar Units)](pgfId-1072309.md)

 [5.12. Equilibrium Constants and Rate-of-Progress Variables »
](pgfId-1072392.md)

Contains proprietary and confidential information of ANSYS, Inc. and its
subsidiaries and affiliates.

Release 2025 R1 - (C) ANSYS, Inc. All rights reserved.

Draft Published: 2024-07-05T13:14:40-04:00

