# CKATHM

    CKATHM    CKATHM    CKATHM    CKATHM    CKATHM    CKATHM    CKATHM    
              **********************************************
                        **************************
                                  ******
    
    SUBROUTINE CKATHM (NDIM1, NDIM2, ICKWRK, RCKWRK, MAXTP, NT, TMP, A)
    Returns the coefficients of the fits for thermodynamic properties
    of species.
    
    INPUT
    NDIM1     - Integer scalar, first dimension of A, the three-
                dimensional array of thermodynamic fit coefficients;
                NDIM1 must be at least NPCP2, the total number of
                coefficients for one temperature range.
    NDIM2     - Integer scalar, second dimension of A; NDIM2 must be
                at least MXTP-1, the total number of temperature ranges.
    ICKWRK(*) - Integer workspace array; dimension at least LENICK.
    RCKWRK(*) - Real    workspace array; dimension at least LENRCK.
    MAXTP     - Integer scalar, number of temperatures used to divide
                the temperature ranges of thermodynamic fits.
    
    OUTPUT
    NT(*)     - Integer array, total number of temperatures used in
                fitting coefficients of thermodynamic properties for
                the species;
                dimension at least KK, the total species count.
    TMP(*,*)  - Real matrix, temperatures for dividing the
                thermodynamic fits for species; dimension at least
                MAXTP for the first, and at least KK for the second,
                the total species count.
                   cgs units, K
    A(*,*,*)  - Real three-dimensioned array of fit coefficients to the
                thermodynamic data for species;
                dimension exactly NPCP2 for the first, exactly MAXTP-1
                for the second, and at least KKTOT for the third, the
                total species count.
                The indices in  A(N,L,K) mean-
                N = 1,NN represent polynomial coefficients in CP/R
                  CP/R(K)=A(1,L,K) + A(2,L,K)*T + A(3,L,K)*T**2 + ...
                N = NN+1 is for the formation enthalpies, that is,
                  HO/R = A(NN+1,L,K)
                N = NN+2 is for the formation entropies, that is,
                  SO/R = A(NN+2,L,K)
                L = 1 is for temperature <= TMP(2,K)
                L = 2 is for TMP(2,K) < temperature <= TMP(3)
                  :
                L = (NTMP-1) is for TMP(NTMP-1) <= temperature;
                K  is  the  species index

[ « 7.5. CKAMS](pgfId-1091942.md)

 [7.7. CKATOM » ](pgfId-1092017.md)

Contains proprietary and confidential information of ANSYS, Inc. and its
subsidiaries and affiliates.

Release 2025 R1 - (C) ANSYS, Inc. All rights reserved.

Draft Published: 2024-07-05T13:14:40-04:00

