# Requirements for Writing a C++ Program

C prototypes are required for calling the Ansys Chemkin FORTRAN subroutines
from C or C++. To call Chemkin FORTRAN subroutines from C or C++ requires an
interface consisting of the file include\chemkin.h (PC) or include/chemkin.h
(UNIX), containing the C++/FORTRAN prototype for some commonly required
utilities.



## Declare Variable Types

A variable must be explicitly typed; in general, the sample programs use a
variable name initial character indicative of its type, that is,

    
    
    int iSpeciesCount;
    double dRho;
    int iLensym = 16;
    char *sSpeciesName = new char [ iLensym + 1 ];

The character-string length of a chemical species name is usually 16, plus one
additional character for a character-string terminator.



## Allocate Arrays

Arrays specific to a mechanism Linking File may be allocated by an estimate of
its requirements, but with C++ it is possible to determine the requirements
first, that is, if the Linking File has been opened (see [Open the Linking
File](pgfId-1085808.md#i44314 "3.1.2.3. Open the Linking File") ).

    
    
    CKLEN (iLinkCK,iLeniCK,iLenrCK,iLencCK,iFlag);
    int *iICKwrk = new int [ iLeniCK ];
    double *dRCKwrk = new double [ iLenrCK ];
    int iLensym = 16;
    char *sCCKwrk = new char [ iLencCK*iLensym + 1 ];



## Open the Linking File

An interface to the FORTRAN `OPEN` is used to allow FORTRAN `READ` of the
Linking File: iFlag will be non-zero on return if there was an error.

    
    
    int iLinkCK=25;
    int iFlag=0;
    CCOPEN ((char *)"chem.asc", (char *)"FORMATTED", (char *)"OLD", iLinkCK,
    iFlag);



## Initialize the Linking File Data

Messages from the subroutine will be sent to a screen or window by assigning
output to `stdout`.

    
    
    int iLout=stdout;
    int iFlag=0;
    CKINIT(iLeniCK,iLenrCK,iLencCK,iLinkCK,iLout,iICKwrk,dRCKwrk,sCCKWRK,iFlag);



## Obtain or Manipulate Data

After the Linking File data has been stored into the Ansys Chemkin work
arrays, they are the means by which further information about the mechanism is
obtained, or data manipulation facilitated.

    
    
    CKINDX (iICKwrk,dRCKwrk,iElementCount,iSpeciesCount,iReactionCount,iCpfitCount);

where `iElementCount` is the `ELEMENTS` count of the mechanism,
`iSpeciesCount` is the `SPECIES` count, `iReactionCount` is the `REACTIONS`
count, and `iCpFitCount` is the number of C p polynomial coefficients for the
species.

    
    
    CKWT (iICKwrk,dRCKwrk,dMolecularWeights);

where double `*dMolecularWeights` = `new double [iSpeciesCount];`

    
    
    CKXTY (X,ICKWRK,RCKWRK,Y)

converts `double X[0..iSpeciesCount-1]` mole fractions to `double
Y[0..iSpeciesCount-1]` mass fractions for the `iSpeciesCount` species.



## Compile and Link

The Ansys Chemkin installation file /include/chemkin_make_unix.inc
(\include\chemkin_make_pc.inc for PC), defines make (nmake) macros for
required compile and link flags, and library names and locations. A user
makefile can set a few additional macros to compile and link a program; the
user macro, `CKROOT` for example, must be defined as the root location of
Chemkin.

If CKROOT is not defined as an environment variable already, the Ansys Chemkin
make file will use its own CKROOT definition. All the other directories
(include, bin, etc.) are referenced using a relative path based on CKROOT.

There are two general scenarios about how CKROOT has to be set:

  1. The first is that the entire Ansys Chemkin file structure is intact when you try to rebuild some DLL or executable. Even if you are not working in the original Chemkin installation, as long as all the other Chemkin directories (bin, include, etc.) are under the same parent directory as the build directory, you do not need to set CKROOT. The make file will use the default setting of '..' and you can use commit a make with the command
    
        > nmake -f drivers_cpp_pc.mak ..\bin\premixdll.dll

Please note that the definition of CKROOT as '..' enables the use of
"..\bin\premixdll.dll" as the target. If you have defined CKROOT as
"c:\progra~1\ANSY~1\v251\reaction\chemkinpro.win64", you have to use
"c:\progra~1\ANSY~1\v251\reaction\chemkinpro.win64\bin\premixdll.dll" as
target instead.

  2. If you have installed the sample directories in a separate location, when you try to rebuild the samples, you must set up your Ansys Chemkin environment. See [Ansys Chemkin Windows Environment](../chemkin_gs/i402616476512363.md "Ansys Chemkin Windows Environment") Section 4.1 or [Chemkin Linux Environment](../chemkin_gs/i09523049683946.md "Chemkin Linux Environment") Section 4.2 of the [Chemkin Getting Started Guide](../chemkin_gs/chemkin_gs.md "Chemkin Getting Started Guide") (depending on whether you are using a Windows or Linux platform).

[ « 3.1.1. Requirements for Writing a FORTRAN Program](pgfId-1085750.md)

 [3.2. Gas-phase Kinetics Sample Program (CONP) » ](pgfId-1085459.md)

Contains proprietary and confidential information of ANSYS, Inc. and its
subsidiaries and affiliates.

Release 2025 R1 - (C) ANSYS, Inc. All rights reserved.

Draft Published: 2024-07-05T13:14:38-04:00

