# User-programmed Reaction Rate Routines

For both gas-phase and surface kinetics reaction mechanisms, users have the
option to provide custom reaction-rate formulations or to actually over-ride
the entire species rates-of-production calculations with a user-provided
subroutine. These options are described in more detail in [Chemkin Input
Manual](../chemkin_in/chemkin_in.md "Chemkin Input Manual"). Briefly, to
turn on user-programmed rate routines, the user must include either `USRPROG`,
or `USRPROD` auxiliary keywords in the Gas-phase Kinetics or Surface Kinetics
input file. The `USRPROG ` option is entered after a specific reaction line,
and serves to override the rate-of-progress calculation for that particular
reaction. The `USRPROD ` option, however, is entered on the `REACTION` line
and signals that a user routine will provide calculation of all species net
production rates, regardless of the rest of the kinetics input in the file.

For gas-phase chemistry, the applicable user routines for the `USRPROG ` and`
USRPROD ` options are `CKUPROG` and `CKUPROD`, respectively. Templates for
these subroutines are provide in the FORTRAN file cklib_user_routines.f.

For surface chemistry, the applicable user routines for the `USRPROG ` and`
USRPROD ` options are `SKUPROG` and `SKUPROD`, respectively. Templates of
these subroutines are found in sklib_user_routines.f.

[ « 2.1. User-programmed Subroutines](pgfId-1071662.md)

 [2.1.2. User-programmed Subroutines in Reactor Models » ](pgfId-1074407.md)

Contains proprietary and confidential information of ANSYS, Inc. and its
subsidiaries and affiliates.

Release 2025 R1 - (C) ANSYS, Inc. All rights reserved.

Draft Published: 2024-07-05T13:14:37-04:00

