# CKIRNU

    
    
    CKIRNU    CKIRNU    CKIRNU    CKIRNU    CKIRNU    CKIRNU    CKIRNU    
              **********************************************
                        **************************
                                  ******
    
    SUBROUTINE CKIRNU (IDIM, NDIM, ICKWRK, RCKWRK, NIRNU, IRNU, NSPEC,
                       KI, RNU)
    Returns the count and indices of reactions with real stoichiometric
    coefficients, counts of species in the reactions, and the species
    indices and coefficients.
    
    INPUT
    IDIM      - Integer scalar, dimension of the arrays IRNU and NSPEC,
                and the second dimension of matrices KI and RNU;
                IDIM must be at least NIRNU, the number of reactions
                with real stoichiometric coefficients.
    NDIM      - Integer scalar, first dimension of matrices KI and RNU;
                NDIM must be at least MAXSP, the maximum number of
                species allowed in a reaction.
    ICKWRK(*) - Integer workspace array; dimension at least LENICK.
    RCKWRK(*) - Real    workspace array; dimension at least LENRCK.
    
    OUTPUT
    NIRNU     - Integer scalar, total number of reactions with real
                stoichiometric coefficients.
    IRNU(*)   - Integer array, indices of reactions with real
                stoichiometric coefficients; dimension at least NIRNU.
    NSPEC(*)  - Integer array, total number of species in a reaction;
                dimension at least NIRNU.
    KI(*,*)   - Integer matrix, species indices for species in the
                NIRNU reactions; dimension at least MAXSP for the first,
                and at least NIRNU for the second.
                KI(M,N) is the species index of the Mth species in the
                Nth real coefficient reaction.
    RNU(*,*)  - Real matrix, stoichiometric coefficients for species
                in the NIRNU reactions; dimension at least MAXSP for
                the first, and at least NIRNU for the second.
                RNU(M,N) is the stoichiometric coefficient of the Mth
                species in the Nth real coefficient reaction, and
                RNU(M,*) < 0 if the Mth species is a reactant;
                RNU(M,*) > 0 if the Mth species is a product.

[ « 7.73. CKIREV](pgfId-1093855.md)

 [7.75. CKISIG » ](pgfId-1093931.md)

Contains proprietary and confidential information of ANSYS, Inc. and its
subsidiaries and affiliates.

Release 2025 R1 - (C) ANSYS, Inc. All rights reserved.

Draft Published: 2024-07-05T13:14:41-04:00

