# Initialization

Table 5.1: Initialization Subroutines

Subroutine| Description  
---|---  
`SUBROUTINE SKINDX (ISKWRK, NELM, KKGAS, KKSUR, KKBULK, KKTOT, NNPHAS, NNSURF, NFSURF, NLSURF, NNBULK, NFBULK, NLBULK, IISUR)` | Returns a group of indices defining the size of the surface reaction mechanism.   
`SUBROUTINE SKINIT (LENISK, LENRSK, LENCSK, LINSK, LOUT, ISKWRK, RSKWRK,
CSKWRK, IFLAG)`| Reads the surface linkfile and creates internal work arrays
ISKWRK, RSKWRK, and CSKWRK. SKINIT must be called before any other Surface
Kinetics subroutine can be used, as the work arrays must be available as their
input.  
`SUBROUTINE SKLEN (LINSK, LOUT, LENI, LENR, LENC, IFLAG)` | Reads the first record of the linkfile to return the lengths required for the integer, real, and character work arrays.  
`SUBROUTINE SKLEN2 (LINSK, LOUT, LENI, LENR, LENC, NELEM, NKKGAS, NKKSUR,
NKKBLK, NKKTOT, NPHASE, NNSUR, NNBLK, NIISUR, NIICON, MORE, IFLAG)`| Reads the
first record of the linkfile to return the lengths required for the integer,
real, and character work arrays, as well as other size information needed for
memory allocation. The routine also advances to the end of the first material.  
`SUBROUTINE SKREWR (LINSK, LOUT, ISKWRK, RSKWRK, CSKWRK, IFLAG)`| Rewrites a
new linkfile from the data stored in ISKWRK, RSKWRK and CSKWRK.  
  
  

[ « 5.1. Mnemonics](pgfId-1071760.md)

 [5.3. Information about Elements » ](pgfId-1071835.md)

Contains proprietary and confidential information of ANSYS, Inc. and its
subsidiaries and affiliates.

Release 2025 R1 - (C) ANSYS, Inc. All rights reserved.

Draft Published: 2024-07-05T13:14:40-04:00

