# Compiler Compatibility

There are many versions of FORTRAN and C or C++ compilers available for each
computer platform, especially for Linux. These compilers and linkers have many
compile, optimization, and linking options. There are also differences in the
runtime library functions associated with different versions of FORTRAN and
C/C++ packages. Here, we document which versions of FORTRAN and C/C++ are
known to work with our libraries. In the Ansys Chemkin installations, we
provide sample code and a make-file system. These files demonstrate the
compilation and linking of user-written programs and routines that involve
calls to the Chemkin libraries. The compile and link flags and system
libraries used in the make files have been verified with the supported
compilers and corresponding platforms, as indicated at our website.

Due to these language, library, and system complexities, we cannot guarantee
that every module written in any version of FORTRAN or C/C++ will be linkable
with our libraries. We especially caution that FORTRAN-90/95 modules using
those language extensions may require system libraries that are not compatible
with the Ansys Chemkin libraries. Since the combination of operating system,
compilers, and third-party packages is often unique to your computing
environment, our ability to assist you in troubleshooting these combinations
will be limited.

Contains proprietary and confidential information of ANSYS, Inc. and its
subsidiaries and affiliates.


Release 2025 R1 - (C) ANSYS, Inc. All rights reserved.


