# SKATHM



    SKATHM    SKATHM    SKATHM    SKATHM    SKATHM    SKATHM    SKATHM    
              **********************************************
                        **************************
                                  ******

    SUBROUTINE SKATHM (MDIM, NDIM1, NDIM2, ISKWRK, RSKWRK, NT, TMP,
                       A)
    Returns the polynomial coefficients of the fits for
    thermodynamic properties of all of the species.

    INPUT
    MDIM      - Integer scalar, first dimension of an array of
                temperatures used in thermodynamic fits for species;
                MDIM must be at least MAXTP, the maximum number of
                temperatures used to fit the thermodynamics.
    NDIM1     - Integer scalar, first dimension of A, the three-
                dimensional array of thermodynamic fit coefficients;
                NDIM1 must be at least NPCP2, the total number of
                coefficients for one temperature range.
    NDIM2     - Integer scalar, second dimension of A; NDIM2 must be
                at least MAXTP-1, the total number of temperature ranges.
    ISKWRK(*) - Integer workspace array; dimension at least LENISK.
    RSKWRK(*) - Real    workspace array; dimension at least LENRSK.

    OUTPUT
    Where NT(K) is the number of temperatures used in fitting the
    thermodynamic properties of species K, TMP(N) is the Nth
    temperature, NT(K)-1 is the number of temperature ranges for
    which the polynomial coefficients are valid, then
    A (L, N, K) is the Lth polynomial coefficient, for the Nth
    temperature range, and the Kth species; that is,

            | <   N = 1  >. <N=2> .                    .<  N = NT - 1>
      P  E  |    .        .       .                    .        .
      O  X  |    .        .       .                    .        .
      L  P  |    .        .       .                    .        .
      Y  R  |    .        .       .                    .        .
      N  E  |    .        .       .                    .        .
      O  S  |    .        .       .                    .        .
      M  S  |    .        .       .                    .        .
      I  I  |    .        .       .                    .        .
      A  O  |    .        .       .                    .        .
      L  N  |____.________._______.____________________.________.______
               TMP(1)  TMP(2)  TMP(3) . .  .  .  . TMP(NT-1)  TMP(NT)

    NT(*)     - Integer array, total number of temperatures used in
                fitting coefficients of thermodynamic properties for
                the species;
                dimension at least KKTOT, the total species count.
    TMP(*,*)  - Real matrix, temperatures for dividing the
                thermodynamic fits for species; dimension at least
                MAXTP for the first, and at least KKTOT for the second,
                the total species count.
                   cgs units, K
    A(*,*,*)  - Real three-dimensioned array of fit coefficients to the
                thermodynamic data for species;
                dimension exactly NPCP2 for the first, exactly MAXTP-1
                for the second, and at least KKTOT for the third, the
                total species count.
                The indicies in  A(N,L,K) mean-
                N = 1,NN represent polynomial coefficients in CP/R
                  CP/R(K)=A(1,L,K) + A(2,L,K)*T + A(3,L,K)*T**2 + ...
                N = NN+1 is for the formation enthalpies, that is,
                  HO/R = A(NN+1,L,K)
                N = NN+2 is for the formation entropies, that is,
                  SO/R = A(NN+2,L,K)
                L = 1 is for temperature <= TMP(2,K)
                L = 2 is for TMP(2,K) < temperature <= TMP(3)
                  :
                L = (NTMP-1) is for TMP(NTMP-1) <= temperature;
                K  is  the  species index

Contains proprietary and confidential information of ANSYS, Inc. and its
subsidiaries and affiliates.


Release 2025 R1 - (C) ANSYS, Inc. All rights reserved.


