# Example of Using the Surface Kinetics Pre-processor

We illustrate the use of _Surface Kinetics_ by a simple example involving
deposition of silicon. The surface reaction mechanism is shown in [Example 1.5: Sample Reaction Mechanism as Read by the _Surface Kinetics_ Pre- processor](pgfId-1020396.md#i40383 "Example 1.5: Sample Reaction Mechanism as Read by the Surface Kinetics Pre-processor") as it appears for the input file to the _Surface Kinetics_ Pre-processor. The first two lines identify a
site type called `SILICON` that has a site density of 1.66 × 10-9 mole/cm2.
Only one species, SI(S), exists on this site type. The bulk material is
identified as SI(B), and it has a mass bulk density of 2.33 g/cm3. This is a
very simple example that has only one site type occupied by only one species
and only one pure bulk material. In general, however, an input file could
specify many different site types, each of which could be occupied by a
variety of species. Furthermore, there could be several bulk-phase mixtures
that could each be composed of several species. Examples of all these
possibilities appear in the [Chemkin Input Manual](https://ansyshelp.ansys.com/public/account/secured?returnurl=/Views/Secured/corp/v242/en/chemkin_in/chemkin_in.html) Input Manual.

The reaction mechanism itself is listed next. The symbol `=>` in each reaction
expression indicates that all of the reactions are irreversible. The three
numbers following each reaction expression are its Arrhenius rate parameters (
pre-exponential factor, temperature exponent, and activation energy).

**Example 1.5: Sample Reaction Mechanism as Read by the _Surface Kinetics_
Pre-processor**



    SITE/SILICON/ SDEN/1.66E-09/
      SI(S)
    BULK SI(B) /2.33/ 

    REACTIONS

    SIH4 + SI(S) =>SI(S) +  SI(B) + 2H2                 1.05E17    0.5 40000
    SI2H6 +2SI(S) =>2SI(S) + 2SI(B) + 3H2               4.55E26    0.5 40000
    SIH2 + SI(S) =>SI(S) +  SI(B) +  H2                 3.9933E11  0.5 0
    SI2H2 +2SI(S) => 2SI(S) + 2SI(B) +  H2              1.7299E20  0.5 0 
    2SI2H3 +4SI(S) => 4SI(S) + 4SI(B) + 3H2             6.2219E37  0.5 0 
    H2SISIH2 +2SI(S) => 2SI(S) + 2SI(B) + 2H2           1.7007E20  0.5 0 
    2SI2H5 +4SI(S)=> 4SI(S) + 4SI(B) + 5H2              6.1186E37  0.5 0 
    2SIH3 +2SI(S) => 2SI(S) + 2SI(B) + 3H2              2.3659E20  0.5 0
    2SIH +2SI(S) => 2SI(S) + 2SI(B) +  H2               2.4465E20  0.5 0 
    SI + SI(S) =>  SI(S) +  SI(B)                       4.1341E11  0.5 0 
    H3SISIH  +2SI(S) => 2SI(S) + 2SI(B) + 2H2           1.7007E20  0.5 0 
    SI2 +2SI(S) => 2SI(S) + 2SI(B)                      1.7607E20  0.5 0 
    SI3 +3SI(S) => 3SI(S) + 3SI(B)                      8.6586E28  0.5 0 
    END

All of the reactions in this mechanism have the same form: a gas-phase species
reacting on a silicon site. The reaction of silane at the surface is
illustrated in [Figure 1.4: Illustration of Gas-Phase Silane Reaction](pgfId-1020396.md#i30411 "Figure 1.4: Illustration of Gas-Phase Silane Reaction") . Each silicon-containing gas-phase species can react on an
atomic surface site, SI(S), to deposit a silicon atom as SI(B) and release
hydrogen back into the gas phase. We have included SI(S) as both a reactant
and a product to indicate that a "site" must be available at which the gas-
phase species can react. In the example, however, the surface silicon SI(S) is
distinguished from the bulk deposit SI(B) by virtue of its position as the
top-most atom at the surface. Therefore, each time a SI(S) is consumed by a
reaction the bulk layer becomes one atom thicker and the silicon atom that
just left the gas now forms the top-most surface layer, that is, SI(S). For
this mechanism, the SI(S) could have been just as well left out of the
mechanism entirely. However, if other gas-phase species had been present (say
phosphine carrying phosphorus as a dopant), these species could compete for
the available silicon sites on the surface. Thus, by writing the reactions as
we have, we have left open the possibility for other species to occupy surface
sites and thus inhibit the deposition of silicon.

**Figure 1.4: Illustration of Gas-Phase Silane Reaction**

![Illustration of Gas-Phase Silane Reaction](graphics/CHEMKIN_Illustr_Gas-Phase_Silane_Reaction.png)



As an example of the full use of _Surface Kinetics_ , assume that the program
we are writing needs to evaluate a boundary condition concerning the energy
balance at a surface of an isothermal particle.

The energy balance would take the following form (with the surface normal
![](graphics/eq49317123-2176-3484-4931-033635321250.svg) pointing into the
particle):

| ![](graphics/i61143.svg) | **(1 -3)** |
| ------------------------ | ---------- |

The dependent variables in this expression are the temperature
![](graphics/eq44571692-4145-7004-9578-559495981262.svg), gas-phase mass
fractions ![](graphics/eq06842689-6285-3940-1317-920449819165.svg) and
convective velocity ![](graphics/eq40400771-9402-2923-0067-859801334946.svg).
The surface site fractions and the bulk-species activities are also dependent
variables, but do not appear explicitly in the expression. The first term in
this equation describes thermal conduction to the surface from the gas phase.
The thermal conductivity
![](graphics/eq14861225-4879-0995-5364-035411427608.svg) would be evaluated by
a call to the _Transport_ Subroutine Library, and the temperature gradient
could be evaluated by finite differences. The second term concerns the
diffusive and convective flux of energy by gas-phase species at the surface.
The mass density ![](graphics/eq93152584-7975-3113-7550-670098777819.svg) and
the gas-phase enthalpies
![](graphics/eq75279664-2707-6194-5831-395933810193.svg) would be evaluated by
calls to the _Gas-phase Kinetics_ Subroutine Library. The gas-phase species
diffusion velocities ![](graphics/eq21591324-9935-5242-0451-561379655072.svg)
would be evaluated in terms of diffusion coefficients that are obtained from
the _Transport_ Package and finite difference approximations to the species
gradients. The first term on the right-hand side concerns the thermal
radiation to or from the surface.

We now concentrate on the final term, which concerns the energy generated or
consumed from surface reaction. The summation is over all surface and bulk
species, and the factors in the summation are the production rate of surface
and bulk species by surface reaction,
![](graphics/eq02907090-1529-9750-1881-235928793508.svg), the species
molecular weights, ![](graphics/eq28353307-7133-1078-1979-282715205698.svg),
and the enthalpies of the surface and bulk species,
![](graphics/eq79624287-1510-6777-1481-332300794039.svg). The FORTRAN
representation of this term begins with _Surface Kinetics_ Subroutine Library
subroutine calls (the output variables are underlined to help distinguish
them):

**Example 1.6: Example calls to the _Surface Kinetics_ Subroutine Library**



    CALL SKINIT(LSIWK, LSRWK, LSCWK, LINKSK, LOUT, ISKWRK, RSKWRK, CSKWRK, IFLAG)
    CALL SKWT(ISKWRK, RSKWRK, WT)
    CALL SKHMS(T, ISKWRK, RSKWRK, HMS)
    CALL SKRAT(P, T, ACT, SDEN, ISKWRK, RSKWRK, SDOT, SITDOT)

The complete details for these calls are explained in later chapters of this
manual; the objective here is to illustrate the relative simplicity of writing
an Ansys Chemkin program. Briefly, the first call is to the initialization
subroutine `SKINIT`, which reads the _Surface Kinetics_ Linking File created
by the _Surface Kinetics_ Pre-processor and populates the three work arrays.
`LSIWK`, `LSRWK`, and `LSCWK` are the dimensions provided by the user for the
data arrays `ISKWRK`, `RSKWRK`, and `CSKWRK`. `LINKSK` is the logical file
number of the _Surface Kinetics_ Linking File, `LOUT` is the logical file
number for printed diagnostic and error messages, and `IFLAG` is an integer
error flag. In the remaining calls, `P` and `T` are the pressure and
temperature. The array `ACT` contains the gas-phase mole fractions, the
surface site fractions, and the bulk species activities, in that order. The
output variable arrays, `HMS` and `SDOT`, correspond to the factors in the
summation from [Equation 1-3](pgfId-1020396.md#i61143 "(1–3)") , that is,
`HMS` = ![](graphics/eq19135887-8623-2438-8563-132844781676.svg), and `SDOT` =
![](graphics/eq33719021-8375-1353-5972-733423400408.svg).

The FORTRAN representation of the summation in the last term, given by
combining the results of the above subroutine calls, is simply

**Example 1.7: Example FORTRAN code for calculating equation terms**



           SUM=0.0
           DO 100 K=FIRST_SURFACE_SPECIES, LAST_BULK_SPECIES
              SUM = SUM + SDOT(K)*WT(K)*HMS(K)
    100    CONTINUE

The species indices `FIRST_SURFACE_SPECIES` and `LAST_BULK_SPECIES` are also
available from a call to the _Surface Kinetics_ Subroutine Library.







