# CKSNUM



    CKSNUM    CKSNUM    CKSNUM    CKSNUM    CKSNUM    CKSNUM    CKSNUM    
              **********************************************
                        **************************
                                  ******

    SUBROUTINE CKSNUM (LINE, NEXP, LOUT, KRAY, NN, KNUM, NVAL,
                       RVAL, KERR)
    Search a character string, LINE, for (1) a character substring which
    may also appear in an array of character substrings KRAY, and
    (2) some number of character substrings representing numbers.
    In the case of (1), if the character substring appears in KRAY,
    KNUM is its index position.
    In the case of (2), the character substrings are converted to
    NVAL real numbers and stored in RVAL, until NEXP are converted.

    This allows format-free input of combined alpha-numeric data.
    For example, the subroutine might be called to find a Chemkin
    species index and convert the other substrings to real values:

       input:  LINE    = "N2  1.2"
               NEXP    = 1, the number of values expected
               LOUT    = 6, a logical unit number on which to write
                         diagnostic messages.
               KRAY(*) = "H2" "O2" "N2" "H" "O" "N" "OH" "H2O" "NO"
               NN      = 9, the number of entries in KRAY(*)
       output: KNUM    = 3, the index number of the substring in
                         KRAY(*) which corresponds to the first
                         substring in LINE
               NVAL    = 1, the number of values found in LINE
                         following the first substring
               RVAL(*) = 1.200E+00, the substring converted to a number
               KERR    = .FALSE.
    INPUT
    LINE      - Character string; length depends on calling routine.
    NEXP      - Integer scalar, number of values to be found in LINE.
                If NEXP < 0, then IABS(NEXP) values are expected, but
                it is not an error condition if less values are found.
    LOUT      - Integer scalar, formatted output file unit.
    KRAY(*)   - Character string array.
    NN        - Integer scalar, total number of character strings
                in KRAY.

    OUTPUT
    KNUM      - Integer scalar, index of character string in KRAY
                which corresponds to the first substring in LINE.
    NVAL      - Integer scalar, count of real values found in LINE.
    RVAL(*)   - Real array, real values found in LINE; dimension at least
                NEXP.
    KERR      - Logical, syntax or dimensioning error flag;
                corresponding string not found, or total of
                values found is not the number of values expected,
                will result in KERR = .TRUE.







