# CKCRAY



    CKCRAY    CKCRAY    CKCRAY    CKCRAY    CKCRAY    CKCRAY    CKCRAY    
              **********************************************
                        **************************
                                  ******

    SUBROUTINE CKCRAY (LINE, NN, KRAY, LOUT, NDIM, NRAY, NF, KERR)
    Searches a character string, LINE, and compares the space-delimited
    substrings in LINE, to an array of character strings, KRAY;
    if a substring in LINE is located in KRAY, the index of its location
    in KRAY is stored in the integer array NRAY.  For example, the
    subroutine might be called to assign Chemkin species indices to a
    given list of species names.  This application is illustrated in the
    following example:

       input:  LINE    = "OH  N2  NO"
               KRAY(*) = "H2" "O2" "N2" "H" "O" "N" "OH" "H2O" "NO"
               NN      = 9, the number of entries in KRAY(*)
               LOUT    = 6, a logical unit number on which to write
                         diagnostic messages.
               NDIM    = 10, the dimension of array NRAY(*)
       output: NRAY(*) = 7, 3, 9, the index numbers of the entries
                         in KRAY(*) corresponding to the substrings
                         in LINE
               NF      = 3, the number of correspondences found.
               KERR    = .FALSE.

    INPUT
    LINE    - Character string.
    KRAY(*) - Character string array; dimension at least NN.
    NN      - Integer scalar, total character string count of KRAY.
    LOUT    - Integer scalar, formatted output file unit.
    NDIM    - Integer scalar, dimension of the integer array NRAY.

    OUTPUT
    NRAY(*) - Integer array, indices of the elements of KRAY
              which correspond to the substrings in LINE;
              dimension at least NDIM.
    NF      - Integer scalar, count of correspondences found.
    KERR    - Logical, syntax or dimensioning Error flag.







