# SKCZTA



    SKCZTA    SKCZTA    SKCZTA    SKCZTA    SKCZTA    SKCZTA    SKCZTA    
              **********************************************
                        **************************
                                  ******

    SUBROUTINE SKCZTA (T, CZ, SDEN, ISKWRK, RSKWRK, ACT)
    Returns the activities of the species, given the pressure,
    temperature and concentrations.

    INPUT
    T(*)      - Real array, temperature(s); dimension is determined by
                the application program to be the total number of
                species temperatures, nominally 1.
                   cgs units, K
    CZ(*)     - Real array, gas-phase and surface species concentrations,
                and bulk species activities;
                dimension at least KKTOT, the total species count.
                The first KKGAS gas-phase concentrations are moles/cm**3,
                the next KKSURF site concentrations are moles/cm**2, and
                the final KKBULK entries are bulk species activities.
    SDEN(*)   - Real array, site densities for the site types;
                dimension at least NPHASE, the total phase count,
                but the subroutine only uses site phase entries,
                NFSURF <= N <= NLSURF.
                   cgs units, moles/cm**2.
    ISKWRK(*) - Integer workspace array; dimension at least LENISK.
    RSKWRK(*) - Real    workspace array; dimension at least LENRSK.

    OUTPUT
    ACT(*)    - Real array, activities of the species;
                dimension at least KKTOT, the total species count.
                The first KKGAS activities are mole fractions,
                the next KKSURF activities are site fractions
                   (species density normalized by the site density;
                    surface concentration in moles/cm**2 is
                    ACT(K)*SITE_DENSITY / # sites per species), and
                the next KKBULK activities for bulk phase species
                should be from 0 to 1, and should sum to 1 for each
                phase.







