# Glossary of abbreviations

- [Introduction](#introduction)
- [Abbreviations](#abbreviations)
  - [A - B - C](#a---b---c)
  - [D - E - F](#d---e---f)
  - [G - H - I](#g---h---i)
  - [J - K - L](#j---k---l)
  - [M - N - O](#m---n---o)
  - [P - Q - R](#p---q---r)
  - [S - T - U](#s---t---u)
  - [V - W - X](#v---w---x)
  - [Y - X](#y---x)


## Introduction

Like all technical documentation, the documentation for PyAnsys
libraries includes lots of abbreviations, which is a general term that
also includes acronyms and initialisms.

On the first use of an abbreviation that might be unfamiliar to the
developer community, the documentation for a PyAnsys library provides
the longer word or phrase. For your convenience, this page provides a
glossary of all these abbreviations.

## Abbreviations

### A - B - C

**ACE**

Ansys Customer Excellence: The Ansys organization responsible for
ensuring customer success with Ansys products.

**ACT**

Ansys customization toolkit: The Ansys unified and consistent toolkit
for customizing and extending Ansys products.

**AEDT**

Ansys Electronics Desktop: An Ansys product with the best-in-class
solvers for electronics simulations. ACT uses easy-to-learn yet powerful
XML (eXtensible Markup Language) and IronPython programming languages.

**AI**

Artificial intelligence: A branch of computer science that deals with
building smart machines that can perceive, synthesize, and infer
information, allowing them to perform tasks that typically require human
intelligence. AI can be applied to various domains, such as expert
systems, natural language processing, speech recognition, and machine
vision. See also DL (deep learning) and ML (machine learning), which
both fall under AI.

**APDL**

APDL (Ansys Parametric Design Language): A powerful, structured
scripting language used to interact with the Ansys Mechanical solver.
See also MAPDL, an FEA (finite element analysis) program driven by APDL.

**API**

Application program interface: A set of rules that enable different apps
to communicate with each other. An API is a type of software interface,
offering a service to other pieces of software.

**BC**

Boundary condition: A place on a structure where either the external
force or the displacement is known at the start of the analysis. In this
way, BCs (boundary conditions) are where the structure interacts with
the environment either through the application of an external force or
through some restraint that is imposing a displacement. See also DOF.

**CAD**

Computer aided design: The use of computers to aid in the creation,
modification, analysis, or optimization of a design.

**CFD**

Computational fluid dynamics: A branch of fluid mechanics that uses
numerical analysis and data structures to analyze and solve problems
that involve fluid flows and related transport phenomena such as heat
and mass transfer.

**CFX**

CFX: An Ansys CFD (computational fluid dynamics) tool for designing and
optimizing turbomachinery, include pumps, turbines, compressors, fans,
and other rotating machinery.

**CI/CD**

Continuous integration/continuous delivery: The practice of automating
the integration of code changes from multiple developers into a single
codebase so that the code can be built, tested, and delivered to
production-ready environments for approval.

**CLA**

Contributor license agreement: An agreement defining the terms under
which intellectual property has been contributed to a project or
company, typically for software under an open source license.

**CORBA**

Common Object Request Broker Architecture: A standard designed to
facilitate the communication of systems that are deployed on diverse
platforms. CORBA enables collaboration between systems on different
operating systems, programming languages, and computing hardware.

**CRLF**

Carriage return, line feed: The invisible characters that the Windows
operating system uses to denote line endings in files.

### D - E - F

**DevEco**

Developer Ecosystem: The name of the Ansys team responsible for the
[Ansys Developer](https://developer.ansys.com/) portal.

**DL**

Deep learning: A subset of ML (machine learning), where artificial
neural networks\--algorithms modeled to work like the human
brain\--learn from large amounts of data. Deep learning is what drives
many AI (artificial intelligence) technologies.

**DNS**

Domain name system: A hierarchical and distributed naming system for
computers, services, and other resources on the internet or other IP
(internet protocol) networks. Just like a telephone directory translates
names to phone numbers, DNS translates domain names to IP addresses,
which are numerical labels assigned to every device connected to a
computer network that uses the Internet Protocol for communication.

**DOF**

Degrees of freedom: The minimum number of independent parameters that
are required to define the position of a rigid body in space. BCs
(boundary conditions) are typically expressed in terms of applicable
degrees of freedom.

**DPF**

Data Processing Framework: An Ansys product that provides numerical
simulation users and engineers with a toolbox for accessing and
transforming simulation data. With DPF, you can perform complex
preprocessing or postprocessing of large amounts of simulation data
within a simulation workflow.

**DRY**

Don\'t repeat yourself: A principle of software development aimed at
reducing repetition of software patterns, replacing them with
abstractions or using data normalization to avoid redundancy.

**XML**

eXtensible Markup Language: A markup language and file format for
storing, transmitting, and reconstructing arbitrary data. XML defines a
set of rules for encoding documents in a format that is both
human-readable and machine-readable.

**EOL**

End-of-line: One or more invisible characters that denote line endings
in files. Each operating system manages EOL characters in its own way.
Windows uses the original DOS convention of a CRLF (carriage return plus
a line feed), while Linux and Mac use only a LF (line feed).

**FEA**

Finite element analysis: A simulation of any given physical phenomenon
using the numerical technique called FEM (finite element method).
Engineers use FEA software to reduce the number of physical prototypes
and experiments and to optimize components in their design phases to
develop better products more quickly and less expensively.

**FEM**

Finite element method: A popular method for numerically solving
differential equations arising in engineering and mathematical modeling.
Typical problem areas of interest include the traditional fields of
structural analysis, heat transfer, fluid flow, mass transport, and
electromagnetic analysis.

**FSW**

Friction stir welding: A solid-state joining process that uses a
non-consumable tool to join two facing workpieces without melting the
workpiece material. The [Friction stir welding (FSW)
simulation](https://examples.mapdl.docs.pyansys.com/technology_showcase_examples/techdemo-28/ex_28-tecfricstir.html)
example in the PyMAPDL documentation shows how to simulate the FSW
process.

### G - H - I

**gRPC**

gRPC: A high performance, open source, universal RPC (remote procedure
call) framework. gRPC can efficiently connect services in and across
data centers with pluggable support for load balancing, tracing, health
checking, and authentication.

**GUI**

Graphical user interface: The system of interactive visual components
that computer software provides for interacting with it. Such visual
components include windows, buttons, menus, and icons.

**HTTP**

Hypertext transfer protocol: A protocol for securing the communication
between a browser and a web server. HTTP is the foundation of any
internet data exchange.

**HTTP**

Hypertext transfer protocol: A protocol for transferring data between a
browser and a web server, providing the foundation of data exchange on
the internet.

**HTTPS**

Hypertext transfer protocol secure: An extension of HTTP that uses
encryption for transferring data between a browser and a web server so
that sensitive data can be safely exchanged on the internet.

**ID**

Identifier: A sequence of characters used to identify or refer to a
piece of data or a process in code.

**IGES**

Initial Graphics Exchange Specification: A vendor-neutral file format
that allows the digital exchange of geometry data and CAD models among
CAD (computer-aided design) systems.

**IP**

Intellectual property: A category of property that includes intangible
creations of the human intellect. Of the many types of IP, the best
known are patents, copyrights, trademarks, and trade secrets.

Internet protocol: The network layer communications protocol in the
Internet protocol suite for relaying datagrams across network
boundaries. Its routing function enables internet working and essentially
establishes the internet.

### J - K - L

**JSON**

JavaScript Object Notation: A lightweight data format for storing and
transporting data. JSON is easy for humans to read and write, and it is
easy for machines to parse and generate. JSON is often used when data is
sent from a server to a web page.

**LF**

Line feed: The invisible character that the Linux and Mac operating
systems use to denote line endings in files.

### M - N - O

**MEMS** Microelectromechanical systems: Miniaturized devices
incorporating both electronic and mechanical components. A MEM device is
made up of components between 1 and 100 micrometers in size. The
[PyMAPDL
documentation](https://mapdl.docs.pyansys.com/version/stable/index.html)
references MEMs on multiple occasions.

**ML**

Machine learning: The use and development of computer systems that can
learn and adapt without following explicit instructions, by using
algorithms and statistical models to analyze and draw inferences from
patterns. ML is a data technology that falls under AI (artificial
intelligence).

**MAPDL**

Mechanical APDL (Ansys Parametric Design Language): A finite element
analysis program driven by APDL. APDL and MAPDL can be used for many
tasks, ranging from creating geometries for analysis to setting up
sophisticated solver settings for highly complex analyses.

**OS**

Operating system: System software that controls and manages the hardware
and the other software on a computer. Every computer must have at least
one OS. Popular operating systems include Microsoft Windows, Linux, and
Apple macOS.

**OSS**

Open source software: Computer software that is released under a license
in which the copyright holder grants users the rights to use, study,
change, and distribute the software and its source code to anyone and
for any purpose. Open source software may be developed in a
collaborative public manner.

### P - Q - R

**PCBN**

Printed circuit board: An assembly that mechanically supports and
electrically connects layers of conductors, metal interconnects,
insulators, and other components such as diodes and resistors.

**PCBN**

Polycrystalline cubic boron nitride: A super-abrasive material that is
used to make cutting tool for machining extremely hard materials. This
tool is used in FSW (friction stir welding).

**PEP8**

Python Enhancement (or Enterprise) Proposal 8: The [style
guide](https://pep8.org/) for Python code. This style guide helps Python
programmers write consistent, readable, and maintainable code.

**PIM**

Product Instance Management: The PIM API is a gRPC API, enabling both
library and app developers to start a product in a remote environment
and communicate with its API. The PIM API is not intended to manage
stateless services, to be a job management system, or a fully featured
service orchestration API. Its purpose is to expose a minimum feature
set for managing service-oriented apps.

**PMM**

Product marketing manager: The title of an Ansys person who can approve
an open source project for an Ansys product for public release.

**PR**

Pull request: A notification to a development team that a branch or fork
of some code has changes that are ready to be reviewed. A PR allows the
team to discuss, comment, and approve the proposed changes before they
are merged into the main repository.

**PSD**

Power spectral density: A type of frequency-domain analysis in vibration
analysis that is a measure of a signal\'s power content versus
frequency. The [Dynamic simulation of a printed circuit board
assembly](https://examples.mapdl.docs.pyansys.com/technology_showcase_examples/techdemo-20/ex_20-tecPCB.html)
example in the PyMAPDL documentation shows how to import an existing FEA
(finite element analysis) model and run a modal and PSD analysis.

**PyPA**

Python Package Authority: A working group that maintains a core set of
software projects used in Python packaging. The software developed
through the PyPA is used to package, share, and install Python software
and to interact with indexes of downloadable Python software such as
PyPI, the Python Package Index.

**PyPI**

Python Package Index: A repository of software for the Python
programming language. PyPI helps you find and install software developed
and shared by the Python community.

**REST**

Representational state transfer: A software architectural style that
provides interoperability between computer systems over the internet.
REST is based on simple and standardized protocols, like HTTP, which is
the backbone of the internet. It emphasizes a stateless client-server
interaction, meaning each request should contain all the necessary
information to be understood by the server, without relying on any
previous interactions. This simplicity and standardization make it easy
for different systems to communicate and exchange data effectively.

**RPC**

Remote procedure call: A powerful software communication protocol used
in distributed client-server programs. An RPC is a request message
initiated by a client program to a known remote server to execute a
specified procedure with supplied parameters. The remote server sends a
response to the client, and the app continues its process. RPC is more
efficient than REST in terms of speed, memory, and payload size.
Typically, the use of REST should be limited to short messages
transferred via JSON files, and gRPC should be used for large data
transfers and bidirectional streaming.

**RMI**

Remote method invocation: An API that allows an object to invoke a
method on an object that exits in another address space, which could be
on the same machine or on a remote machine. The Java RMI is the
object-oriented equivalent of an RPC (remote procedure) for Java, with
support for direct transfer of serialized Java classes and distributed
garbage-collection.

*RST*

Result structural: A proprietary file format in which Ansys Mechanical
writes simulation results from a structural analysis.

reStructured Text: A file format and markup language that software
developers and technical documentation writers use to produce
documentation for Python-based software programs.

*RTH*

Result thermal: A proprietary file format in which Ansys Mechanical
writes simulation results for a thermal analysis.

### S - T - U

**SI units**

Système International units: The modern form of the metric system and
the world\'s most widely used system of measurement. It is the only
system of measurement with an official status in nearly every country in
the world and is employed in science, technology, industry, and everyday
commerce.

**SSH**

Secure shell protocol: A cryptographic network protocol for operating
network services securely over an unsecured network. Its most notable
applications are remote login and command-line execution.

**TDD**

Test-driven development: A software development process that relies on
software requirements being converted to test cases before software is
fully developed. Software development is then tracked by repeatedly
testing the software against all use cases.

**UDF**

User-defined function. Custom logic for a computation defined by a user
that can then be reused multiple types in the user environment. Python
UDFs are scalar functions that return a value for each row passed to
them. In Python, UDFs can be applied directly in the dataframes and SQL
data databases.

### V - W - X

**VPN**

Virtual private network: A secure connection from your computer, smart
phone, or tablet to a server on the internet that allows you to browse
the internet using this computer\'s internet connection. A VPN provides
hides your IP (internet protocol) address and encrypts your internet
connection to provide an extra layer of privacy and anonymity.

**VS Code**

Visual Studio Code: The lightweight but powerful source code editor made
by Microsoft with the Electron Framework. It is available for Windows,
Linux, and macOS. VS Code supports debugging, syntax highlighting,
intelligent code completion, snippets, code refactoring, and embedded
Git. It can be used with a variety of programming languages including C,
C#, C++, Fortran, Go, Java, JavaScript, Node.js, Python, Rust, and
Julia.

**VTK**

Visualization Toolkit: Open source software for 3D computer graphics,
image processing, and scientific visualization.

**WSL2**

Windows Subsystem for Linux: A Windows development environment that
enables running a GNU/Linux environment, including most command-line
tools, utilities, and apps, directly on Windows, unmodified, without the
overhead of a traditional virtual machine or dual-boot setup.

### Y - X

(No Y or Z entries exist presently.)
