# Index to the Sherlock APIs

In the table below, API services are listed alphabetically. Clicking on any of
the links will take you the pertinent section where the API services are
presented in detail. Also, links at the bottom of the table take you to tables
which define [Scalar Value Types](ch01s11.md "gRPC Scalar Value Types").

Table 1.1. Index to the Sherlock APIs

Sherlock APIService| Description  
---|---  
[Analysis Service](ch01s03.md "Sherlock Analysis Service- SherlockAnalysisService.proto") |  The APIs in this section allow you to run one or more analyses in sequential order. Results are saved to the project's Saved Results folder on Sherlock Project Tree. `SherlockAnalysisService.proto`  
[Common Service](ch01s04.md "Sherlock Common Service- SherlockCommonService.proto") |  This section contains health checks and exit APIs shared by all services. `SherlockCommonService.proto`  
[Layer Services](ch01s05.md "Sherlock Layer Service-
SherlockLayerService.proto")|  The APIs in this section allow you to perform
different layer view operations to a board. `SherlockLayerServices.proto`  
[Life Cycle Service](ch01s06.md "Sherlock Life Cycle Service- SherlockLifeCycleService.proto") |  The APIs in this section return the list of Life Cycle events for a given project as well as allow you to define different Life Cycle events and profiles. `SherlockLifeCycleService.proto`  
[Model Service](ch01s07.md "Sherlock Model Services-SherlockModelServices.proto")|  The APIs in this section allows you to export
the 3D model, material definitions, and material assignments from Sherlock so
they can be shared with other applications such as Ansys Workbench.
`SherlockModelService.proto`
[Parts Service](ch01s08.md "Sherlock Parts Service- SherlockPartsService.proto") |  In this section you will find APIs that allow you to see the user-configured part libraries, to see a list of parts with properties different than those in the Sherlock Part Library, and to update the Parts List for a given project. `SherlockPartsService.proto`  
[Project Service](ch01s09.md "Sherlock Project Service- SherlockProjectService.proto") |  The APIs in this section perform project level functions such as generating reports and importing ECAD files. `SherlockProjectService.proto`  
[Stackup Service](ch01s10.md "Sherlock Stackup Service- SherlockStackupService.proto") |  The APIs in this section allow you to perform updates on laminate layers. `SherlockStackupService.proto`  
Scalar Value Types: The links below will take you to tables which define gRPC scalar values by language type. | For C++, Java, Python, and Go, [click here](ch01s11.md#sherlock_ug_table_gRPC_scalar_C_plus_java "Table 1.238. gRPC Scalar Value Types \(A\)").  
---  
For C#, PHP, and Ruby, [click
here](ch01s11.md#sherlock_ug_table_gRPC_scalar_Types_B "Table 1.239. gRPC
Scalar Value Types \(B\)").  
  
  

* * *

[Prev](index.md) / [Next](ch01s03.md)  

