# Structure and Use of the Transport Utilities

The _Transport_ utilities must be used in conjunction with the _Gas-phase
Kinetics_ utilities. The general flow of information is depicted in [Figure 1.3: Relationships between the CHEMKIN Pre-processors and an Application](pgfId-1017373.md#i62358 "Figure 1.3: Relationships between the CHEMKIN Pre-processors and an Application") . The _Transport_ utilities can be
used with or without the _Surface Kinetics_ utilities.

As with the _Surface Kinetics_ utilities, the _Gas-phase Kinetics_ Pre-
processor must be run prior to the _Transport_ Pre-processor. The _Transport_
Pre-processor requires input from the Transport Database, and from the _Gas-
phase Kinetics_ Linking File. The Transport Database contains molecular
parameters for a number of species; these parameters are: The Lennard-Jones
well depth ![](graphics/eq71036551-1681-9604-2918-673011385917.svg) in
Kelvins, the Lennard-Jones collision diameter
![](graphics/eq20681490-1039-3612-7152-814451337282.svg) in Angstroms, the
dipole moment ![](graphics/eq66249785-7445-0260-8347-157091667088.svg) in
Debyes, the polarizability
![](graphics/eq00280314-3537-3805-6224-978331845878.svg) in cubic angstroms,
rotational relaxation collision number
![](graphics/eq97454377-1223-6035-1708-479487087431.svg) and an indicator
regarding the nature and geometrical configuration of the molecule. A
supplemental input file may also contain this information. The information
coming from the _Gas-phase Kinetics_ Linking File contains the species names
and molecular weights, as well as thermodynamic data. Like the _Gas-phase
Kinetics_ Pre-processor, the _Transport_ Pre-processor produces a _Transport_
Linking File that is later needed in the _Transport_ Subroutine Library.

Both the _Gas-phase Kinetics_ and the _Transport_ Subroutine Libraries must be
initialized before use and there is a similar initialization subroutine in
each. The _Transport_ Subroutine Library is initialized by a call to
subroutine `MCINIT`. Its purpose is to read the _Transport_ Linking File and
populate the storage arrays, allocated by the calling program, which must be
made available to all other subroutines in the library. Once initialized, any
subroutine in the library may be called from the application program. There
are just eighteen (18) subroutines contained in the Transport subroutine
library. These return pure-species, binary, and gas-mixture transport
properties, using either a mixture-averaged or full multicomponent
formulation, as described in the [Chemkin Theory Manual](https://ansyshelp.ansys.com/public/account/secured?returnurl=/Views/Secured/corp/v242/en/chemkin_th/chemkin_th.html) Theory Manual.







