# MCINIT



    MCINIT    MCINIT    MCINIT    MCINIT    MCINIT    MCINIT    MCINIT    
              **********************************************
                        **************************
                                  ******

    SUBROUTINE MCINIT (LINKMC, LOUT, LENIMC, LENRMC, IMCWRK, RMCWRK,
                       IFLAG)
    This subroutine reads the transport linkfile from the fitting code
    and creates the internal storage and work arrays, IMCWRK(*) and
    RMCWRK(*).  MCINIT must be called before any other transport
    subroutine is called.  It must be called after the CHEMKIN package
    is initialized.

    INPUT
    LINKMC    - Integer scalar, transport linkfile input unit number.
    LOUT      - Integer scalar, formatted output file unit number.
    LENIMC    - Integer scalar, minimum dimension of the integer
                storage and workspace array IMCWRK(*);
                LENIMC must be at least:
                LENIMC = 4*KK + NLITE,
                where KK is the total species count, and
                      NLITE is the number of species with molecular
                            weight less than 5.
    LENRMC    - Integer scalar, minimum dimension of the real storage
                and workspace array RMCWRK(*);
                LENRMC must be at least:
                LENRMC = KK*(19 + 2*NO + NO*NLITE) + (NO+15)*KK**2,
                where KK is the total species count,
                      NO is the order of the polynomial fits (NO=4),
                      NLITE is the number of species with molecular
                            weight less than 5.

    OUTPUT
    IMCWRK(*) - Integer workspace array; dimension at least LENIMC.
    RMCWRK(*) - Real    workspace array; dimension at least LENRMC.

Contains proprietary and confidential information of ANSYS, Inc. and its
subsidiaries and affiliates.


Release 2025 R1 - (C) ANSYS, Inc. All rights reserved.

Draft Published: 2024-07-05T13:22:52-04:00

