# Discussion of Sample Problem

We illustrate the input and output of the various Pre-processors and the
example problem with an analysis of the deposition of Si3 N4. The gas-phase
reaction mechanism contains a detailed description of NH3 decomposition (about
which there is much published information), two reactions describing
decomposition, and three cross-reactions. At the low pressures we consider,
the gas-phase decomposition of reactants is slow. The surface reaction
mechanism contains six steps describing the overall conversion of 3 SiF4 and 4
NH3 molecules to 3 Si(d) and 4 N(d) and 12 HF.

* * *

Note:  The surface reaction mechanism is from a preliminary analysis at one
temperature, and thus we have not supplied any activation energies. Also, the
thermodynamic data in the mechanism is contrived and should not be used in
other contexts. As such, this mechanism should only be considered as
illustrative and not as a source of kinetic data on the Si3 N4 system.

* * *

The input to the sample problem gives the initial pressure as 2.63 × 10-3 atm
(2 Torr) and temperature 1713 K. In this problem the temperature is fixed, but
the pressure will increase as 12 moles of HF are produced for every 7 moles of
reactant destroyed. The input gas-phase mole fractions represent a 6:1 ratio
of NH3 to SiF4. Initial site fractions of the surface species came from a
steady-state analysis of the system (not discussed here). The initial
activities of the two bulk species are set to 1. The area to volume ratio is 6
(a cubic box).

The print-out from the sample problem shows the initial conditions followed by
print-outs of the concentrations at subsequent states of the deposition. The
reactants SiF4 and NH3 are seen to be depleted and the product HF forms. In
this fixed-volume system the pressure rises (discussed above). There is a net
decrease in the gas density as the heavy Si and N atoms are lost from the gas
into the bulk.

Contains proprietary and confidential information of ANSYS, Inc. and its
subsidiaries and affiliates.


Release 2025 R1 - (C) ANSYS, Inc. All rights reserved.

Draft Published: 2024-07-05T13:22:48-04:00

