# SKRAT



    SKRAT     SKRAT     SKRAT     SKRAT     SKRAT     SKRAT     SKRAT     
              **********************************************
                        **************************
                                  ******

    SUBROUTINE SKRAT  (P, T, ACT, SDEN, ISKWRK, RSKWRK, SDOT, SITDOT)
    Returns production rates for the species and sites.

    INPUT
    P         - Real scalar, pressure.
                   cgs units, dynes/cm**2
    T(*)      - Real array, temperature(s); dimension is determined by
                the application program to be the total number of
                species temperatures, nominally 1.
                   cgs units, K
    ACT(*)    - Real array, activities of the species;
                dimension at least KKTOT, the total species count.
                The first KKGAS activities are mole fractions,
                the next KKSURF activities are site fractions
                   (species density normalized by the site density;
                    surface concentration in moles/cm**2 is
                    ACT(K)*SITE_DENSITY / # sites per species), and
                the next KKBULK activities for bulk phase species
                should be from 0 to 1, and should sum to 1 for each
                phase.
    SDEN(*)   - Real array, site densities for the site types;
                dimension at least NPHASE, the total phase count,
                but the subroutine only uses site phase entries,
                NFSURF <= N <= NLSURF.
                   cgs units, moles/cm**2.
    ISKWRK(*) - Integer workspace array; dimension at least LENISK.
    RSKWRK(*) - Real    workspace array; dimension at least LENRSK.

    OUTPUT
    SDOT(*)   - Real array, production rates of the species;
                dimension at least KKTOT, the total species count.
                   cgs units, moles/(cm**2*sec)
                for 1,KKGAS, the production rate of gas-phase species,
                for KKGAS+1,KKGAS+KKSUR, the production rate of surface
                species,
                for KKGAS+KKSUR+1,KKTOT, the production rate of bulk
                species.
    SITDOT(*) - Real array, production rates of the surface phases;
                dimension at least NPHASE, the total phase count, but
                subroutine only calculates entries for site phases.
                   cgs units, moles/(cm**2*sec)

Contains proprietary and confidential information of ANSYS, Inc. and its
subsidiaries and affiliates.


Release 2025 R1 - (C) ANSYS, Inc. All rights reserved.


