# Structure and Use of Gas-phase Kinetics Utilities

The Gas-phase Kinetics utilities are composed of the following:

  * Gas-phase Kinetics Pre-processor (a program)

  * Gas-phase Kinetics Subroutine Library (a set of FORTRAN subroutines)

The Gas-phase Kinetics Pre-processor is included as part of the Pre-processor
utility accessed from the Ansys Chemkin interface and described in [Chemkin Getting Started Guide](.../../chemkin_gs/chemkin_gs.md . However, the Gas-phase
Kinetics Pre-processor can also be run independently, through the command-
line, as described in [Chemkin Getting Started Guide](../chemkin_gs/chemkin_gs.md) . In either case, the Pre-processor must
be run in order to produce a gas-phase Linking File, wh../../chemkin_gs/chemkin_gs.md
chemistry-specific information for the gas-phase−kinetics portion of the
particular Chemistry Set identified for the problem. This Linking File must be
available to any Chemkin application program that makes calls to the Gas-phase
Kinetics Subroutine Library. The Pre-processor program must therefore be run
prior to running a Chemkin application program or Reactor Model.

The general structure of the Gas-phase Kinetics utilities and the relationship
between the utilities and an Ansys Chemkin application program are shown in
[Figure 1.1: Schematic representing the relationship of Gas-phase Kinetics and the Application.](pgfId-1040829.md#i32598 "Figure 1.1: Schematic
representing the relationship of Gas-phase Kinetics and the Application.") .
The Gas-phase Kinetics Pre-processor is a program that reads a symbolicpgfId-1040829.md#i32598
description of a gas-phase reaction mechanism and then extracts the needed
thermodynamic data for each species involved in that mechanism from a
Thermodynamic Database file. The primary output from the Pre-processor is the
Gas-phase Kinetics Linking File. This file contains information that contains
all required information about the elements, species, and reactions in the
user's mechanism. However, users should not attempt to read this file
directly, as the structure changes from version to version of Chemkin
utilities. Instead, calls to initialization routines within the Gas-phase
Kinetics Library facilitate extraction of the data stored.

* * *

Note:  If any errors occur during pre-processing, the error state will be
reflected in the Linking File and when called, the `CKINIT` will print a
diagnostic message and execution will stop.

* * *

The Linking File is read by an initialization subroutine, CKINIT. The purpose
of the initialization is to populate three data arrays (one integer, one
floating point, and one character data type) in stored memory within your
program. These arrays are then passed into other subroutines in the Gas-phase
Kinetics Subroutine Library, for internal use within the subroutines. These
arrays should not be modified within your program once they have been
initialized. Before the initialization routine is called, your application
program must first allocate the memory for the three arrays. A call into the
subroutine library can be made to retrieve the needed dimensions for this
purpose. The Gas-phase Kinetics subroutine to perform derived calculations or
extract chemistry-specific information during the simulation.

* * *

Note:  Although the Linking File is a formatted file (for example, chem.asc),
user programs should not attempt to read this file directly; instead, always
use the Ansys Chemkin initialization routine `CKINIT` to extract information
from it. The format of the file will change from version to version, but the
subroutine library calling lists are static.

* * *

If you are writing your own application that describes a particular set of
governing equations, the programming required is highly leveraged by the Ansys
Chemkin subroutine libraries. For example, through a simple call to Gas-phase
Kinetics subroutines the program can obtain chemistry-specific terms in the
governing equations that relate to equations of state, chemical production,
and thermodynamics. You can then focus on the form of the equations and the
solver methodology, letting Chemkin subroutines handle all of the chemistry-
specific part of the problem definition.

The Gas-phase Kinetics Subroutine Library has over 150 subroutines that return
information on elements, species, reactions, equations of state, thermodynamic
properties, and chemical production rates. Generally, the input to these
routines will be the state of the gas--pressure or density, temperature(s),
and species composition.

Figure 1.1: Schematic representing the relationship of Gas-phase Kinetics and
the Application.

![Schematic representing the relationship of Gas-phase Kinetics and the
Application.](graphics/CHEMKIN_relationship_Gas-
phase_Kinetics_and_Application.png)



Contains proprietary and confidential information of ANSYS, Inc. and its
subsidiaries and affiliates.


Release 2025 R1 - (C) ANSYS, Inc. All rights reserved.


