# User-programmed Reaction Rate Routines

For both gas-phase and surface kinetics reaction mechanisms, users have the
option to provide custom reaction-rate formulations or to actually over-ride
the entire species rates-of-production calculations with a user-provided
subroutine. These options are described in more detail in [Chemkin Input Manual](.../../chemkin_in/chemkin_in.md. Briefly, to turn on user-programmed
rate routines, the user must include either `USRPROG`, or `USRPROD` auxiliary
keywords in the Gas-phase Kinetics or Surface Kinetics input file. The
`USRPROG ` option is entered after a specific reaction line, and serves to
override the rate-of-progress calculation for that particular reaction. The
`USRPROD ` option, however, is entered on the `REACTION` line and signals that
a user routine will provide calculation of all species net production rates,
regardless of the rest of the kinetics input in the file.

For gas-phase chemistry, the applicable user routines for the `USRPROG ` and` USRPROD ` options are `CKUPROG` and `CKUPROD`, respectively. Templates for
these subroutines are provide in the FORTRAN file cklib_user_routines.f.

For surface chemistry, the applicable user routines for the `USRPROG ` and` USRPROD ` options are `SKUPROG` and `SKUPROD`, respectively. Templates of
these subroutines are found in sklib_user_routines.f.

Contains proprietary and confidential information of ANSYS, Inc. and its
subsidiaries and affiliates.

* * *

| [Prev](pgfId-1071662.md) | [Up](pgfId-1071662.md) / [Contents](chemkin_api.md) / [Home](../index.asp?Tab=1) | [Next](pgfId-1074407.md) |
| ------------------------ | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------ |

* * *pgfId-1071662.mdpgfId-1071662.mdchemkin_api.md../../index.asppgfId-1074407.md

Release 2025 R1 - (C) ANSYS, Inc. All rights reserved.

Draft Published: 2024-07-05T13:22:48-04:00

