# CKRCXP



    CKRCXP    CKRCXP    CKRCXP    CKRCXP    CKRCXP    CKRCXP    CKRCXP    
              **********************************************
                        **************************
                                  ******

    SUBROUTINE CKRCXP  (P, T, X, ICKWRK, RCKWRK, RCFT, RCRT)
    Returns the forward and reverse rate constants for all reactions
    given pressure, temperature and mole fractions.
    Note this subroutine will calculate a value for the reverse rate
    constant irrespective of whether the reaction was deemed reversible
    in the interpreter file.  Also note that the concentration of third
    bodies for third body reactions is included in the returned rate
    constant.  The units for the rate constant will depend
    on the number of reactants.

    INPUT
    P      - Pressure.
                  cgs units - dynes/cm**2
                  Data type - real scalar
    T(*)   - Temperature.
                  cgs units - K
                  Data type - real array
    X      - Mole fractions of the species.
                  cgs units - none
                  Data type - real array
                  Dimension X(*) at least KK, the total number of
                  species.
    ICKWRK - Array of integer workspace.
                  Data type - integer array
                  Dimension ICKWRK(*) at least LENIWK.
    RCKWRK - Array of real work space.
                  Data type - real array
                  Dimension RCKWRK(*) at least LENRWK.

    OUTPUT
    RCFT      - Rate constant for the forward reaction.
                  cgs units - mole/(cm**3*sec) *
                          (cm**3/mole)**(sum of forward stoich. coeff)
                  Data type - real array
                  Dimension RCFT(*) at least II, the total number
                  of reactions.
    RCRT      - Rate constant for the forward reaction.
                  cgs units - mole/(cm**3*sec) *
                          (cm**3/mole)**(sum of reverse stoich. coeff)
                  Data type - real array
                  Dimension RCRT(*) at least II, the total number
                  of reactions.

Contains proprietary and confidential information of ANSYS, Inc. and its
subsidiaries and affiliates.


Release 2025 R1 - (C) ANSYS, Inc. All rights reserved.

Draft Published: 2024-07-05T13:22:51-04:00

