# SKLEN2



    SKLEN2    SKLEN2    SKLEN2    SKLEN2    SKLEN2    SKLEN2    SKLEN2    
              **********************************************
                        **************************
                                  ******

    SUBROUTINE SKLEN2 (LINSK, LOUT, LENI, LENR, LENC,
                       NELEM, NKKGAS, NKKSUR, NKKBLK, NKKTOT, NPHASE,
                       NNSUR, NNBLK, NIISUR, NIICON, MORE, IFLAG)
    Reads the first record of the linkfile to return the lengths
    required for the integer, real, and character work arrays,
    as well as other size information needed for memory allocation.
    The routine also advances to the end of the first material.

    INPUT
    LINSK     - Integer scalar, input unit number assigned to linkfile.
    LOUT      - Integer scalar, formatted output unit file number.

    OUTPUT
    LENI      - Integer scalar, dimension required for integer work
                array, ISKWRK.
    LENR      - Integer scalar, dimension required for real work
                array, RSKWRK.
    LENC      - Integer scalar, dimension required for character work
                array, CSKWRK.
    NELEM     - Integer scalar, number of elements
    NKKGAS    - Integer scalar, number of gas-phase species
    NKKSUR    - Integer scalar, number of surface site species
    NKKBLK    - Integer scalar, number of bulk species
    NKKTOT    - Integer scalar, total number of species
    NPHASE    - Integer scalar, total number of phases
    NNSUR     - Integer scalar, number of surface phases
    NNBLK     - Integer scalar, number of bulk phases
    NIISUR    - Number of surface reactions
    NIICON    - Number of reactions for which sites are not conserved.
    MORE      - Integer scalar, flag if > 0 indicates another material
                  follows this one in the linking file.
    IFLAG     - Integer scalar, flag if > 0 indicates an error occurred
                  during reading of the linking file.

Contains proprietary and confidential information of ANSYS, Inc. and its
subsidiaries and affiliates.


Release 2025 R1 - (C) ANSYS, Inc. All rights reserved.

Draft Published: 2024-07-05T13:22:52-04:00

