# User-programmed Subroutines

Ansys Chemkin has the added flexibility to incorporate user programming for
certain terms in equations solved in Chemkin, or to parameterize time- or
distance-dependent variables. Templates for each of the user subroutine
options are provided in the standard Chemkin installation, under the
subdirectory user_routines, that is,

For Windows/Win64:




    C:\Program Files\ANSYS Inc\V251\reaction\chemkinpro.win64\user_routines

For Linux8664:



    /ansys_inc/v251⁄reaction⁄chemkinpro.linuxx8664/user_routines

There are two types of User Subroutine options:

  1. Subroutines that provide customer reaction-rate formulations and supplement or replace certain functionality in the Ansys Chemkin subroutine libraries, and

  2. Subroutines that add to or replace certain functionality in a Reactor Model application program.

For Reactor Model user routines, in addition to programming, compiling, and
linking code into the application programs, users must also specifically
select the use of the user-subroutine option, either through the appropriate
Ansys Chemkin interface input panel, or through manually adding keywords to a
Reactor Model input file. Similarly, for utility or reaction-rate user
routines, users must explicitly include auxiliary information in the Gas-phase
Kinetics or Surface Kinetics input file that activates the user subroutine.

Contains proprietary and confidential information of ANSYS, Inc. and its
subsidiaries and affiliates.



Release 2025 R1 - (C) ANSYS, Inc. All rights reserved.


