# SKSNUM



    SKSNUM    SKSNUM    SKSNUM    SKSNUM    SKSNUM    SKSNUM    SKSNUM    
              **********************************************
                        **************************
                                  ******

    SUBROUTINE SKSNUM (LINE, NEXP, LOUT, KNAM, KKTOT, PNAM, NNPHAS,
                       KKPHAS, KNUM, NT, NVAL, RVAL, KERR)
    This subroutine is used to read a format-free input line of
    combined alphanumerical data.  It can be used to parse an input
    character string, LINE, which may be composed of several blank-
    delimited substrings.  This subroutine assumes that the first
    substring in LINE is the name of a species in the Surface Chemkin
    mechanism.  If the species name is not unique within the Surface
    Chemkin mechanism, the phase of the species should be input
    immediately after the species name, delimited by slashes.
    Upon return from the subroutine, KNUM returns the index position
    of the species within the Surface Chemkin linkfile.  If the
    species name is not unique, KNUM returns the first position and
    NT returns the number of the times the species occurs within the
    linkfile.  If the species name is not found, or there is a
    syntax error, on return, KNUM=0, NT=0, and KERR=.TRUE.
    The substrings in LINE following the first are expected to
    represent numbers.  They are converted into floating point
    values and stored in the output vector, RVAL(*).  Upon input,
    NEXP is equal to the number of values expected to be found.
    If NEXP numbers are not found, KERR will be set to .TRUE. on
    return from the subroutine.

       Example input:
               LINE     = GA(S)/BULK1/ 1.2
               NEXP     = 1, the number of values expected
               LOUT     = 6, a logical unit number on which to write
                          diagnostic messages
               KNAM(*)  = Array of character species names
               KKTOT    = Total number of species
               PNAM(*)  = Array of character phase names
               NNPHAS   = Total number of phases
               KKPHAS(*)= Index array of the number of species in the
                          phases
       Output:
               KNUM     = The index number of the species which
                          has the name "GA(S)" and resides in phase
                          "BULK1"
               NT       = 1, if there is only one species GA(S)
                          in phase BULK1
               NVAL     = 1, the number of values found in LINE
                          following the species name
               RVAL(1)  = 1.200E+00, the substring converted to a
                          real number

               KERR     = .FALSE.

    INPUT
    LINE      - Character string; length depends on calling routine.

    NEXP      - Integer scalar, number of values to be found in LINE.
                If NEXP < 0, then IABS(NEXP) values are expected, but
                it is not an error condition if less values are found.
    LOUT      - Integer scalar, formatted output file unit number.
    KNAM(*)   - Character string array, species names;
                dimension at least KKTOT, the total species count.
    KKTOT     - Integer scalar, the total species count.
    PNAM(*)   - Character string array, phase names;
                dimension at least NNPHAS, the total phase count.

    NNPHAS    - Integer scalar, the total phase count.
    KKPHAS(*) - Integer array, total species counts for the phases;
                dimension at least NNPHAS, the total phase count.

    OUTPUT
    KNUM      - Integer scalar, species index if the species name appears
                in LINE.
    NT        - Integer scalar, number of times the species name occurs
                in the linkfile.

    NVAL      - Integer scalar, number of value character strings found

                in LINE.
    RVAL(*)   - Real array, real values for their character strings in
                LINE;
                dimension at least NEXP, the number of values expected.
    KERR      - Logical, syntax or dimensioning error flag;

Contains proprietary and confidential information of ANSYS, Inc. and its
subsidiaries and affiliates.


Release 2025 R1 - (C) ANSYS, Inc. All rights reserved.

Draft Published: 2024-07-05T13:22:52-04:00

