# SKDSDC



    SKDSDC    SKDSDC    SKDSDC    SKDSDC    SKDSDC    SKDSDC    SKDSDC    
              **********************************************
                        **************************
                                  ******

    SUBROUTINE SKDSDC (P, T, X, ACT, SDEN, ISKWRK, RSKWRK, DSDC, KDIM,
                       SDOT, SITDOT)
    Returns the partial derivative of the production rates of the
    species with respect to the concentration of each species.
    It also returns the matching production rates.

    INPUT
    P         - Real scalar, pressure.
                   cgs units, dynes/cm**2
    T(*)      - Real array, temperature(s); dimension is determined by
                the application program to be the total number of
                species temperatures, nominally 1.
                   cgs units, K
    X(*)      - Real array, mole fraction (or its equivalent) of the
                species;
                dimension at least KKTOT, the total species count.
                The first KKGAS X are mole fractions,
                the next KKSURF X are site fractions
                   (species density normalized by the site density;
                    surface concentration in moles/cm**2 is
                    X(K)*SITE_DENSITY / # sites per species),
                the next KKBULK X are bulk species mole fractions.
    ACT(*)    - Real array, activities of the species;
                dimension at least KKTOT, the total species count.
                The first KKGAS activities are mole fractions,
                the next KKSURF activities are site fractions
                   (species density normalized by the site density;
                    surface concentration in moles/cm**2 is
                    ACT(K)*SITE_DENSITY / # sites per species), and
                the next KKBULK activities for bulk phase species
                should be from 0 to 1, and should sum to 1 for each
                phase.
    SDEN(*)   - Real array, site densities for the site types;
                dimension at least NPHASE, the total phase count,
                but the subroutine only uses site phase entries,
                NFSURF <= N <= NLSURF.
                   cgs units, moles/cm**2.
    ISKWRK(*) - Integer workspace array; dimension at least LENISK.
    RSKWRK(*) - Real    workspace array; dimension at least LENRSK.
    KDIM      - Integer scalar, actual first dimension of DSDC.

    OUTPUT
    DSDC(*,*) - Real matrix, the partial derivatives of the production
                rates of the species with respect to the concentration
                of species KSPEC;
                dimension at least KKTOT, the total species count, for
                both the first and second dimensions.
                   cgs units, moles/(cm**2*sec) / (units of KSPEC)
    SDOT(*)   - Real array, production rates of the species;
                dimension at least KKTOT, the total species count.
                   cgs units, moles/(cm**2*sec)
                for 1,KKGAS, the production rates of gas-phase species,
                for KKGAS+1,KKGAS+KKSUR, the production rates of surface
                species,
                for KKGAS+KKSUR+1,KKTOT, the production rate of bulk
                species.
    SITDOT(*) - Real array, production rates of the surface phases;
                dimension at least NPHASE, the total phase count, but
                subroutine only calculates entries for site phases.
                   cgs units, moles/(cm**2*sec)

Contains proprietary and confidential information of ANSYS, Inc. and its
subsidiaries and affiliates.


Release 2025 R1 - (C) ANSYS, Inc. All rights reserved.


