# Basic Requirements of a Chemkin Program

In addition to using pre-built Ansys Chemkin Reactor Models, users may opt to
write their own, directly accessing the Gas-phase Kinetics, Surface Kinetics,
and/or Transport subroutine libraries. In order to do so, you must have the
following:

  * A compatible FORTRAN compiler installed on the computer where Ansys Chemkin is installed.

  * (optional) A C or C++ compiler, when programming in C or C++. This compiler should be compatible with the FORTRAN compiler and with the Ansys Chemkin build.

  * Knowledge of the FORTRAN language and the C/C++ language if applicable.

  * Experience with compiling and linking programs on the computer platform of interest.

For more information on the compiler compatibility with Ansys Chemkin
libraries, see [Compiler Compatibility](i43132.md "1.1. Compiler
Compatibility").

The basic requirements for any program are declaration of variables and
arrays, allocation of memory, and file manipulation. Ansys Chemkin-based
programs must also establish a link to the user's chemistry data through
initialization routines that access the Linking Files generated by Pre-
processor programs, as discussed in [Introduction](i13005api_intro.md) .
This section provides an introduction to these processes.

More specific detail is provided by way of example, in [Gas-phase Kinetics Sample Program (CONP)](ppgfId-1085459.md"3.2. Gas-phase Kinetics Sample
Program (CONP)") through [Transport Sample Problem (PROPS)](pgfId-1078341.md "3.4. Transport Sample Problem (PROPS)") , which
describe sample programs that demonstrate the use of Ansys ChempgfId-1078341.md
calls. These sample programs are provided as source code with a standard
Chemkin installation. Also provided at installation are sample makefiles and
macros to facilitate compiling and linking of a FORTRAN or C++ program.

Note that any program linked to the Ansys Chemkin /API requires that a
Chemistry Set has been successfully pre-processed before the program can run.
This will ensure that the needed Linking Files have been created and can be
accessed by the user program. These dependencies are discussed in
[Introduction](i13005api_intro.md "Chapter 1: Introduction") . The Gas-phase
Kinetics Linking File (for example, chem.asc) is required in all cases. Use of
Surface Kinetici13005api_intro.md requires the Surface Kinetics Linking File
(e.g., surf.asc) to be created. Similarly, Transport subroutine library calls
require that the Transport Linking File (for example, tran.asc) be created
through a successful run of the Transport Pre-processor.

When users author their own Applications, they will need to access the Linking
File from the Application program after the Pre-processor has been
successfully executed, so that subroutines from the Gas-phase Kinetics
Subroutine Library can be called from the Application. The Application's first
step must be to dimension three storage arrays (one integer, one floating
point, and one character data type) and then call the initialization
subroutine `CKINIT` to fill the storage arrays from the Linking File data. One
or more of these arrays is required input to nearly every other subroutine in
the Gas-phase Kinetics package.

* * *

Note:  The minimum length for the arrays can be found in Pre-processor output.
The storage-array sizes can also be determined by a call to the subroutine
`CKLEN`.

* * *

Once `CKINIT` has been successfully called in an Application program, any
number of Gas-phase Kinetics subroutines can be used to return various types
of information. The subroutine needed for a particular function can be
determined by referencing descriptions of equations in the [Chemkin Theory Manual](../chemkin_th/chemkin_th.md) , or through the subject-based quick-
reference list in [Quick Reference Guide to the Gas-phase Kinetics Subroutine Library](i13005api_quickref_gaskinetics.md "Chapter 4: Quick Reference Guide
to the Gas-phase Kinetics Subroutine Library") of this manual. Detailed../../chemkin_th/chemkin_th.md
information about the subroutine call lists are provided in an alphabetical
listing in [Alphabetical Listing of the Gas-phase Kinetics Subroutine Library](i13005apii13005api_quickref_gaskinetics.mdical Listing of the Gas-
phase Kinetics Subroutine Library") . Normally only a few of the subroutines
in the package would be called for any one problem.

For the Surface Kinetics and Transport subroutine libraries, there is ai13005api_list_gpk.md
similar requirement of array allocation and calling of an initialization
routine. In this case, the necessary array sizes can be found by calls to
`SKLEN` and `MCLEN`, respectively, and the initialization occurs through calls
to `SKINIT` and `MCINIT`, respectively.

The following sections outline specific components that form the basic
requirements for an Ansys Chemkin application program.

Contains proprietary and confidential information of ANSYS, Inc. and its
subsidiaries and affiliates.


Releasei13005api_writing_userapps.mdl rights i13005api_writing_userapps.mdchemkin_api.md../../index.asppgfId-1085750.md


