# CKLEN2



    CKLEN2    CKLEN2    CKLEN2    CKLEN2    CKLEN2    CKLEN2    CKLEN2    
              **********************************************
                        **************************
                                  ******

    SUBROUTINE CKLEN2 (LINC, LOUT, LI, LR, LC, MM, KK, II,
                       MAXSP, MAXTP, MAXTB, MAXORD, KKI, IFLAG)
    Returns the lengths required for work arrays, as well as
    mechanism size information for memory allocation.

    INPUT
    LINC     - Integer scalar, input file unit for the linkfile.
    LOUT     - Integer scalar, formatted output file unit.

    OUTPUT
    LI       - Integer scalar, minimum length required for the
                 integer work array.
    LR       - Integer scalar, minimum length required for the
                real work array.
    LC       - Integer scalar, minimum length required for the
                 character work array.
    MM       - Integer scalar, number of elements
    KK       - Integer scalar, number of gas-phase species
    II       - Integer scalar, number of gas-phase reactions
    MAXSP    - Integer scalar, maximum number of species per reaction
    MAXTP    - Integer scalar, maximum number of temperature bounds
                 for the thermodynamic fits.
    MAXTB    - Integer scalar, maximum number of third bodies per reax
    MAXORD   - Integer scalar, maximum number of order-changes per
                 reactions that use arbitrary reaction orders
    KKI      - Integer scalar, number of gas-phase ions
    IFLAG    - Integer scalar, indicates successful reading of
               linkfile; IFLAG>0 indicates error type.

Contains proprietary and confidential information of ANSYS, Inc. and its
subsidiaries and affiliates.


Release 2025 R1 - (C) ANSYS, Inc. All rights reserved.

Draft Published: 2024-07-05T13:22:50-04:00

