# Chemical Production Rates

Table 5.10: Chemical Production Rates Subroutines

| Subroutine                                                       | Description                                                                                       |
| ---------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `SUBROUTINE SKCONT (KSPEC, ROP, ISKWRK, RSKWRK, CIK)`            | Returns the contributions of the surface reactions to the molar production rate of species KSPEC. |
| `SUBROUTINE SKDRDA (IR, P, T, ACT, SDEN, ISKWRK, RSKWRK, DKDAI)` | Returns the                                                                                       |
partial of the rates of production of the species with respect to the pre-
exponential constant of surface reaction IR.  
`SUBROUTINE SKDRDC (KSPEC, P, T, ACT, SDEN, ISKWRK, RSKWRK, DKDC)`| Returns
the partial derivative of the production rates of the species with respect to
the concentration of species KSPEC.  
`SUBROUTINE SKDSDC (P, T, X, ACT, SDEN, ISKWRK, RSKWRK, DSDC, KKTOT, SDOT, SITDOT)`| Returns the partial derivative of the production rates of the
species with respect to the concentration of each species. It also returns the
matching production rates.  
`SUBROUTINE SKDSDX (P, T, X, ACT, SDEN, ISKWRK, RSKWRK, DSDX, KKTOT, SDOT, SITDOT)`| Returns the partial derivative of the production rates of the
species with respect to the activity for each species. It also returns the
matching production rates.  
`SUBROUTINE SKRAT (P, T, ACT, SDEN, ISKWRK, RSKWRK, SDOT, SITDOT)`| Returns
production rates for the species and sites.  
`SUBROUTINE SKRATI (IR, ROP, ISKWRK, RSKWRK, SDOTI, SITDTI)` | Returns rates of production of the species by surface reaction IR.



Contains proprietary and confidential information of ANSYS, Inc. and its
subsidiaries and affiliates.



Release 2025 R1 - (C) ANSYS, Inc. All rights reserved.


