
## Structure and Use of the Transport Utilities

The Transport utilities must be used in conjunction with the Gas-phase
Kinetics utilities. The general flow of information is depicted in [Figure
1.3: Relationships between the CHEMKIN Pre-processors and an
Application](pgfId-1017373.md#i62358 "Figure 1.3: Relationships between the
CHEMKIN Pre-processors and an Application") . The Transport utilities can be
used with or without the Surface Kinetics utilities.

As with the Surface Kinetics utilities, the Gas-phase Kinetics Pre-processor
must be run prior to the Transport Pre-processor. The Transport Pre-processor
requires input from the Transport Database, and from the Gas-phase Kinetics
Linking File. The Transport Database contains molecular parameters for a
number of species; these parameters are: The Lennard-Jones well depth
![](graphics/eq71036551-1681-9604-2918-673011385917.svg) in Kelvins, the
Lennard-Jones collision diameter
![](graphics/eq20681490-1039-3612-7152-814451337282.svg) in Angstroms, the
dipole moment ![](graphics/eq66249785-7445-0260-8347-157091667088.svg) in
Debyes, the polarizability
![](graphics/eq00280314-3537-3805-6224-978331845878.svg) in cubic angstroms,
rotational relaxation collision number
![](graphics/eq97454377-1223-6035-1708-479487087431.svg) and an indicator
regarding the nature and geometrical configuration of the molecule. A
supplemental input file may also contain this information. The information
coming from the Gas-phase Kinetics Linking File contains the species names and
molecular weights, as well as thermodynamic data. Like the Gas-phase Kinetics
Pre-processor, the Transport Pre-processor produces a Transport Linking File
that is later needed in the Transport Subroutine Library.

Both the Gas-phase Kinetics and the Transport Subroutine Libraries must be
initialized before use and there is a similar initialization subroutine in
each. The Transport Subroutine Library is initialized by a call to subroutine
`MCINIT`. Its purpose is to read the Transport Linking File and populate the
storage arrays, allocated by the calling program, which must be made available
to all other subroutines in the library. Once initialized, any subroutine in
the library may be called from the application program. There are just
eighteen (18) subroutines contained in the Transport subroutine library. These
return pure-species, binary, and gas-mixture transport properties, using
either a mixture-averaged or full multicomponent formulation, as described in
the [Chemkin Theory Manual](../chemkin_th/chemkin_th.md "Chemkin Theory
Manual") Theory Manual.

[ « 1.5.1. Example of Using the Surface Kinetics Pre-
processor](pgfId-1020396.md)

 [Chapter 2: User Supplemental Programming » ](i13005api_user_sup_prog.md)

Contains proprietary and confidential information of ANSYS, Inc. and its
subsidiaries and affiliates.

Release 2025 R1 - (C) ANSYS, Inc. All rights reserved.

Draft Published: 2024-07-05T13:14:37-04:00

