
## SKILANG

    
    
    SKILANG   SKILANG   SKILANG   SKILANG   SKILANG   SKILANG   SKILANG   
              **********************************************
                        **************************
                                  ******
    
    SUBROUTINE SKILANG (IS, ISKWRK, RSKWRK, MAXK, NKLANG, KLANG,
                        NULANG, ELANG, MAXP, PLANG)
    Returns a set of flags indicating whether the reactions are
    Langmuir-Hinshelwood/Eley Rideal reactions, and if so, the
    species indices and their parameters.
    
    INPUT
    IS        - Integer reaction index.
    ISKWRK(*) - Integer workspace array; dimension at least LENISK.
    RSKWRK(*) - Real workspace array; dimension at least LENRSK.
    MAXK      - Integer dimension for data arrays;
                MAXK needs to be at least as large as the number of
                L-H/ER species in reaction IS.
    OUTPUT
    NKLANG    - Integer scalar;
                = 0, there is no L-H or ER rate-modify;
                = N > 0, there are N species for an L-H rate-modify.
    KLANG(*)  - Integer array, L-H/ER species for reaction IS;
                dimension at least NDIM.
    NULANG(*) - Integer array, L-H/ER reactant and product species
                flags for reaction IS;
                if NULANG(n) = 1, the nth reaction species uses an L-H
                rate scalar in the numberator, as well as the denominator;
                dimension at least MAXSPR, the number of species allowed
                in a surface reaction.
    ELANG     - Real scalar, L-H/ER exponent for the denominator for
                reaction IS;
    MAXP      - Integer dimension for data arrays;
                MAXP needs to be at least NLHPAR, the number of parameters
                required for an L-H/ER species rate-modify.
    PLANG(*,*)- Real matrix, L-H/ER species parameters for reaction IS;
                the first dimension needs to be at least NLHPAR,
                the second dimension needs to be at least NKLANG.

[ « 8.37. SKIENR](pgfId-1108833.md)

 [8.39. SKINDX » ](pgfId-1110928.md)

Contains proprietary and confidential information of ANSYS, Inc. and its
subsidiaries and affiliates.

Release 2025 R1 - (C) ANSYS, Inc. All rights reserved.

Draft Published: 2024-07-05T13:14:41-04:00

