# Version 2025 R1

The **2025 R1** version of the **Discovery APIs** contains the following changes and additions:

## Custom tree

-   **Dynamic Tree Group Hierarchy Generation**: APIs for creating custom tree hierarchies can now be invoked by the add-in at any time, enabling dynamic creation and deletion of groups and subgroups.
-   **Custom Object Parenting**: Previously, only custom objects parented to the root part were shown in the custom tree. Now, custom objects can also be parented to components. When a component is exported, its associated custom objects are also exported.
-   **Tree Handlers for Groups**: Handlers (buttons to control visibility or other add-in-defined actions) were previously available only for custom objects. These handlers are now also supported for groups.
-   **Custom Tree Hints**: New functionality allows you to define hints for objects within the custom tree.
Flyout Feature: The Try Flyout functionality, previously available only for PhysicsWrapper, is now supported for DiscoveryWrapper custom objects.

## Materials

-   **Custom Material Properties**
    -   You can define custom properties for any material provided by **Discovery**.
    -   Custom material properties can be grouped under a custom label (one group per material).
    -   Add-ins can provide default values and receive callbacks when property values are changed, creating a project material.
    -   Custom properties are included when a material is exported to a custom library. However, they cannot be edited when used from the custom library.
-   **Geometrical Entity as Location Properties**: Through the API, you can assign geometrical entities (faces, edges, curves) as location properties for material assignments.

## Ribbon

-   **Custom Tab Placement**: Add-in-provided tabs can now be placed at various locations in the ribbon, including before the default **Discovery** tabs.
-   **Default Tabs for Stages**: Add-in-provided tabs can now be marked as default tabs for specific stages.

## API Additions

-   **New Application Event**:
    -   OpenFileCompleted event added.
-   **Support for Custom Beams**
-   **Physics Conditions Enhancements**:
    -   Added support for Current and Voltage.
-   **Inlet Flow Extensions**:
    -   Velocity profile specification added.
-   **Remote Point Location for Displacement**
-   **Gravity Enhancements**:
    -   Added support for self-weight and buoyancy.

## API Changes and Incompatibilities

-   **Deprecated API Version**:
API version V22 is now deprecated and will be removed in the next Discovery release.
-   **Namespace Renaming**:
Application events related to the Context Menu and File Menu have moved to `V251.UserInterface.dll`.
The namespace has changed from `Ansys.Discovery.Api.V251.Customization.Menu` to `Ansys.Discovery.Api.V251.Menu`.
