# Changelog

## Assembly version 92.0.0.0

**Notes**

- For this release and all subsequent releases, OpenTD assemblies will no longer include the version in their filenames. The filenames will not change with each version.
- Assembly versions will no longer correspond to TD versions (24.2.0.0, etc.).
- The first assembly version chosen for this new scheme is 92.0.0.0.
  
### New features

- `Comparer` now supports different comparison algorithms for different types of data.
- All methods that used to accept Dataset now accept IDataset for greater flexibility.
- `DatasetFactory.Load` can now be used to load sav, CSR, or savx with path, without knowing type of file.
- `MCH_USED` added to `StandardDataSubtypes`.
- Now handles domain names from XREF dwgs.
- Added `TIMEN2` support to logic objects.

### Performance improvements

- `CaptureGraphicsArea` is more reliable.
- Fixed various Orbit parameters to correctly use flux or temperature conversions.
- Fixed rename behavior for all properties, including stacks. Entities that use the property now reflect the rename.
- User preferences now set correctly from OpenTD.
- `CreateHeatLoad` now works with tets.
- Fixed bug where results in UDFA’s associated with fluid objects returned NaN’s.
- Fixed bug where UDFA results were incorrect.
- One-way conductors now show positive heat flow if flow is in the direction of “from” node to “to” node (was reversed).
- Now reading `BotInsulationNodeSubmodelIdOption` correctly for surfaces.

## Version 2024 R2

### New features

- Added `case set group name` parameter to `TDSF_CoSolver` constructors.
- Added `Message` member to `CompareSuite`; just returns `Log` member.
- Twin lump ids are now automatically sequenced if `lump.TwinId == 0`.
- Added auto start of OpenTD servers on `_SAVEAS` for all versions of OpenTD.

## Version 2024 R1

### Note

This was an administrative release. There is only one new feature: added `Comparer.ToString()` method.

## Version 2023 R2

### Major new features

- Added support for controlling item visibility via the `ThermalDesktop.VisibilityManager`.
- Added `ReadMeshDataFile` method to read various mesh data formats into TD.
- Added support for stack aliases.
- Added `DynamicSindaStatus` class for interacting with messages generated by `Dynamic Sinda`.
- Added limited support for new beta `SaveX` file format.

### Other new features

- Added `MeshDisplayer.BaseTrans` property -- now you can move FEM's.
- Added experimental `CaseSetManager.IsCaseRunning()` method for asynchronous cases.
- Added `Contactor.Comment` property.
- Use lightweight SubmodelNameData's to identify submodels for FloCAD objects.
- Added `GetNumberOfDbObjects(...)` method.
- Implemented `ConvertFDtoFE` method.
- `Matrix3d.SetOrigin` now returns the new matrix instead of `void`.
- `Dataset.Factory.Load` method to load `sav`, `savx`, or `CSR`.
- `Comparer` ctor overload to accept `IDatasets` instead of `Datasets`.
- Added `Close` and `ReOpen` methods to `IDataset`.
- Added `CloseDatasets` and `ReOpenDatasets` methods to `Comparer`.
- Added ability to rename and delete aliases.
- Added `CaseSetManagerOptions.ShowTextScreenDuringRun` member.
- Added `Conductor.UseGlobalAccelm` member.
- Added `RcEntityData.GlobalContactArray` member.
- Added `RcSolidElement.AnalysisGroupsVolumetric` member.
- Added `RcFdSolidData.AnalysisGroupsVolumetric` member.
- Added `FkLocator.Anchor` member.
- Added `Pipe.LengthDivisions` and `RadialDivisions` members.
- Added `Tie.LengthDivisions`, `RadialDivisions`, and `UseGlobalAccelm` members.

### Performance improvements

- `CreateCone` returns correct node names.
- `Polygon.Update()` no longer duplicates vertices.
- `CoSolver.Continue()` returns -1 if `SF` disconnected, instead of an exception.
- New `scr` filename and pipe name conventions to avoid Windows Defender mistaking `scr` files for viruses.
- Avoid issues with duplicate handles in Assembly.
- Fix parsing mixed-case subtypes like "DeltaP."
- Fix `GetMeshFD(s)` so it populates returned object(s) correctly.
- `GetPipe` no longer returns pipes with blank signatures.
- Pipe ties now handle domains correctly.
- `CaseSet.Run` and `CaseSetManager.Run` now handle casesets with drive symbols from Excel.
