
## Gas-phase Kinetics Sample Program (CONP)

CONP is an example of a FORTRAN or C++ program directly accessing the Gas-
phase Kinetics Subroutine Library. Before coding such an executable for Gas-
phase Kinetics, the user must (1) define a system of governing equations, (2)
define a reaction mechanism, and (3) choose a solution method. In this sample
problem we will solve the equations describing constant pressure combustion
for a hydrogen-air reaction mechanism.

The governing energy and mass conservation equations are:

![](graphics/pgfId-1082323.svg)| (3-1)  
---|---  
![](graphics/pgfId-1082327.svg)| (3-2)  
---|---  
  
where T is temperature and Y k are the mass fractions of the K species
involved. The independent variable t is time. Other variables are
![](graphics/eq94145639-5428-9408-0097-750516216714.svg), mass density;
![](graphics/eq03264786-8361-4440-2381-340366913365.svg), mean specific heat
at constant pressure;
![](graphics/eqe2d9dbca-336f-447f-83fb-3656649736f2.svg), the specific
enthalpies of the species;
![](graphics/eq62007473-9062-9073-0608-023265774922.svg), the molar production
rates of the species; and
![](graphics/eqd20e881e-03da-47eb-95f2-0e8935b5cd71.svg), the molecular
weights of the species.

The governing system of ordinary differential equations and accompanying
initial conditions form an initial value problem. The equations will be solved
using VODE.[1] We find this solver to be reliable for the solution of a wide
range of stiff initial-value problems. The source code for the solver is
provided in the Chemkin subdirectory source_public\vode.f (PC),
source_public/vode.f (UNIX), which is extensively commented as to its
implementation.

The FORTRAN implementation for the solution of the sample problem is provided
in the Ansys Chemkin subdirectory samples<release_number>\sample_apps_f77\conp
(PC), samples<release_number>/sample_apps_f77/conp (UNIX), and a C++
implementation in samples<release_number>\sample_apps_cpp\conp (PC),
samples<release_number>/sample_apps_cpp/conp (UNIX). After initializing Gas-
phase Kinetics, the program reads the initial nonzero moles from input. It
then repeatedly calls subroutine `VODE` to obtain the solution at uniform
print intervals. The governing equation formulation is found in `SUBROUTINE
FUN`, which is called by `VODE`.

* * *

Note:  When using this example, you must (i) ensure FLEXLM_ARCH is set (see
[Recompiling and Linking a User Subroutine](i71111.md "2.1.3. Recompiling
and Linking a User Subroutine") ) and (ii) edit the .inc makefile so that the
CKROOT variable is set to the location of your Ansys Chemkin installation (see
[Compile and Link](pgfId-1085750.md#i60052 "3.1.1.6. Compile and Link") ).

* * *

The sections below present Gas-phase Kinetics Pre-processor input and output
for the sample problem, and the input and output for the `CONP` execution.

  

* * *

[1] P. N. Brown, G. D. Byrne, and A. C. Hindmarsh, SIAM J. Sci. Stat. Comput.
10 :1038 (1989).

[ « 3.1.2. Requirements for Writing a C++ Program](pgfId-1085808.md)

 [3.2.1. Input to Gas-phase Kinetics Pre-processor » ](pgfId-1082370.md)

Contains proprietary and confidential information of ANSYS, Inc. and its
subsidiaries and affiliates.

Release 2025 R1 - (C) ANSYS, Inc. All rights reserved.

Draft Published: 2024-07-05T13:14:38-04:00

