
## Utilities

Table 5.12: Utility Subroutines

Subroutine| Description  
---|---  
`SUBROUTINE SKCOMP (ISTR, IRAY, NN, IND, NT) ` | Search for the occurrence of character string ISTR, in the NN character strings of array IRAY; IND is the first location in IRAY of ISTR if found, or 0 if not found, and NT is the total number of times it occurs. Consider the following example,  
`SUBROUTINE SKPCMP (ISTR, IRAY, NN, SETS, NSETS, ISET, IND, NT)`| This
subroutine can do everything that the subroutine SKCOMP can do, and
additionally, has the capabilities of separating the elements of IRAY into
categories and then search IRAY by element and category.  
`SUBROUTINE SKPNT (LSAVE, LOUT, VERS, PREC, LENI, LENR, LENC, IERR)`| Reads
from a file information about a Surface Kinetics Linking File, pointers for
the Surface Kinetics Subroutine Library, and returns lengths of work arrays.  
`SUBROUTINE SKSNUM (LINE, NEXP, LOUT, KNAM, KKTOT, PNAM, NNPHAS, KKPHAS, KNUM,
NT, NVAL, RVAL, KERR)`| This subroutine is used to read a format-free input
line of combined alphanumeric data. It can be used to parse an input character
string, LINE, which may be composed of several blank-delimited substrings.
This subroutine assumes that the first substring in LINE is the name of a
species in the Surface Kinetics mechanism.  
`SUBROUTINE SKSAVE (LOUT, LSAVE, ISKWRK, RSKWRK, CSKWRK)` | Writes to a binary file information about a Surface Kinetics Linking File, pointers for the Surface Kinetics Subroutine Library, and Surface Kinetics work arrays.  
  
  

[ « 5.12. Equilibrium Constants and Rate-of-Progress
Variables](pgfId-1072392.md)

 [Chapter 6: Quick Reference Guide to the Transport Subroutine Library »
](i13005api_quickref_transp_lib.md)

Contains proprietary and confidential information of ANSYS, Inc. and its
subsidiaries and affiliates.

Release 2025 R1 - (C) ANSYS, Inc. All rights reserved.

Draft Published: 2024-07-05T13:14:40-04:00

