
## CKINU

    
    
    CKINU     CKINU     CKINU     CKINU     CKINU     CKINU     CKINU     
              **********************************************
                        **************************
                                  ******
    
    SUBROUTINE CKINU (I, NDIM, ICKWRK, RCKWRK, NSPEC, KI, NU)
    Returns a count of species in a reaction, and their indices
    and stoichiometric coefficients.
    
    INPUT
    I         - Integer scalar, index of a reaction;
                I must be positive, and less than or equal to NII,
                the total reaction count.
    NDIM      - Integer scalar, dimension of the arrays KI and NU;
                NDIM must be at least MAXSP, the maximum number of
                species allowed in a reaction.
    ICKWRK(*) - Integer workspace array; dimension at least LENICK.
    RCKWRK(*) - Real    workspace array; dimension at least LENRCK.
    
    OUTPUT
    NSPEC     - Integer scalar, the total species count for reaction I.
    KI(*)     - Integer array, species indices for those in
                reaction I; dimension at least MAXSP, the maximum
                number of species allowed in a reaction.
                KI(N) is the index of the Nth species in reaction I.
    NU(*)     - Integer array, stoichiometric coefficients for those
                in reaction I;
                dimension at least MAXSP, the maximum number of
                species allowed in a reaction.
                NU(N) is the stoichiometric coefficient of the Nth
                Nth species in reaction I, and
                NU < 0 if the Nth species is a reactant;
                NU > 0 if the Nth species is a product.

[ « 7.68. CKINIT](pgfId-1093694.md)

 [7.70. CKION » ](pgfId-1093760.md)

Contains proprietary and confidential information of ANSYS, Inc. and its
subsidiaries and affiliates.

Release 2025 R1 - (C) ANSYS, Inc. All rights reserved.

Draft Published: 2024-07-05T13:14:41-04:00

