
## SKIYLD

    
    
    SKIYLD    SKIYLD    SKIYLD    SKIYLD    SKIYLD    SKIYLD    SKIYLD    
              **********************************************
                        **************************
                                  ******
    
    SUBROUTINE SKIYLD (IR, ISKWRK, RSKWRK, IYLD, IYION, KYLD, PYLD)
    Returns an integer flag to indicate whether reaction IR has yield-
    modified species, the species index of its ion, yield-modify flags
    for its reactants and products, and parameters for the yield
    expression.
    
    INPUT
    IR        - Integer scalar, surface reaction index.
    ISKWRK(*) - Integer workspace array; dimension at least LENISK.
    RSKWRK(*) - Real    workspace array; dimension at least LENRSK.
    
    OUTPUT
    IYLD      - Integer scalar, flag for yield-modify reactions;
                1, reaction IR uses yield-modification
                0, no
    IYION     - Integer scalar, species index of the ion in a yield-
                modify reaction.
    KYLD(*)   - Integer array, yield flags for the species in a yield-
                modify reaction;
                dimension at least MAXSPR, the maximum number of species
                allowed in a surface reaction.
                1, species is yield-modified
                0, no
    PYLD(*)   - Real array, parameters for the yield-expression in
                a yield-modify reaction;
                dimension at least NYPAR, the number of parameters
                required.
                If IYLD=1, and KYLD of the Nth species in the reaction
                is 1, the stoichiometric coefficient NU of the species is
                scaled by the results of the expression
                   PYLD(1) * [Ei**PYLD(3) - PYLD(2)**PYLD(3)] **PYLD(4)
                where Ei is the ion energy of species IYION.

[ « 8.46. SKIUQ](pgfId-1109140.md)

 [8.48. SKKFRT » ](pgfId-1109201.md)

Contains proprietary and confidential information of ANSYS, Inc. and its
subsidiaries and affiliates.

Release 2025 R1 - (C) ANSYS, Inc. All rights reserved.

Draft Published: 2024-07-05T13:14:42-04:00

