
## SKDEN

    
    
    SKDEN     SKDEN     SKDEN     SKDEN     SKDEN     SKDEN     SKDEN     
              **********************************************
                        **************************
                                  ******
    
    SUBROUTINE SKDEN  (P, T, ACT, SDEN, ISKWRK, RSKWRK, DEN)
    Returns a real array of species densities.
    
    INPUT
    P         - Real scalar, pressure.
                   cgs units, dynes/cm**2
    T(*)      - Real array, temperature(s); dimension is determined by
                the application program to be the total number of
                species temperatures, nominally 1.
                   cgs units, K
    ACT(*)    - Real array, activities of the species;
                dimension at least KKTOT, the total species count.
                The first KKGAS activities are mole fractions,
                the next KKSURF activities are site fractions
                   (species density normalized by the site density;
                    surface concentration in moles/cm**2 is
                    ACT(K)*SITE_DENSITY / # sites per species), and
                the next KKBULK activities for bulk phase species
                should be from 0 to 1, and should sum to 1 for each
                phase.
    SDEN(*)   - Real array, site densities for the site types;
                dimension at least NPHASE, the total phase count,
                but the subroutine only uses site phase entries,
                NFSURF <= N <= NLSURF.
                   cgs units, moles/cm**2.
    ISKWRK(*) - Integer workspace array; dimension at least LENISK.
    RSKWRK(*) - Real    workspace array; dimension at least LENRSK.
    
    OUTPUT
    DEN(*)    - Real array, densities for the species;
                dimension at least KKTOT, the total species count.
                   cgm units, gm/cm**3 for gas-phase species
                              bm/cm**2 for surface species
                              gm/cm**3 for bulk species
    
                NOTE:  mass densities are not required to be input to
                       the Interpreter for bulk-phase species.
                       If they are input, they are returned by this
                       subroutine.  If not, DEN = -1.0 for the bulk
                       species

[ « 8.22. SKCZTA](pgfId-1108255.md)

 [8.24. SKDRDA » ](pgfId-1108345.md)

Contains proprietary and confidential information of ANSYS, Inc. and its
subsidiaries and affiliates.

Release 2025 R1 - (C) ANSYS, Inc. All rights reserved.

Draft Published: 2024-07-05T13:14:41-04:00

