# CKIPLG



    CKIPLG    CKIPLG    CKIPLG    CKIPLG    CKIPLG    CKIPLG    CKIPLG    
              **********************************************
                        **************************
                                  ******

    SUBROUTINE CKIPLG (I, LOUT, ICKWRK, RCKWRK, NDIM1, NPRES, PRES,
                       PPAR, KERR)

    Returns parameters for a pressure-fit option reaction.

    INPUT
    I         - Integer scalar, index of a reaction.
    LOUT      - Integer scalar, formatted output file unit number.
    ICKWRK(*) - Integer workspace array; dimension at least LENICK.
    RCKWRK(*) - Real    workspace array; dimension at least LENRCK.
    NDIM1     - Integer scalar, first dimension for a matrix of
                pressure-fit Arrhenius parameters; if reaction I is
                a pressure-fit reaction, NDIM1 must be at least the
                number of pressures given for the reaction

    OUTPUT
    NPRES       - Integer scalar, count of pressures given for a
                pressure-fit reaction; if NPLG=0, reaction I is not
                a pressure-fit reaction.
    PRES(*)    - Real array; if reaction I is a pressure-fit reaction,
                PRES contains the NPRES pressures (atm) used in the fits.
    PPAR(*,*)  - Real matrix; if reaction I is a pressure-fit reaction,
                PPAR contains 3 Arrhenius parameters for each of the
                NPRES pressures used in the fits.  NDIM1 is the first
                dimension, and must be at least NPLG, the count of
                pressures given for reaction I; the second dimension
                must be at least 3, the number of parameters for the
                Arrhenius rate expression.
    KERR         Logical error flag

Contains proprietary and confidential information of ANSYS, Inc. and its
subsidiaries and affiliates.


Release 2025 R1 - (C) ANSYS, Inc. All rights reserved.


